lyrics file for nine black poppies


cubs in five

they're gonna find intelligent life up there on the moon
and the canterbury tales will shoot up to the top of the best seller list
and stay there for 27 weeks
and the chicago cubs will beat every team in the league
and the tampa bay bucs will make it the way to january
and i will love you again
i will love you, like i used to
i will love you again
i will love you, like i used to
 
the stars are gonna spell out the answers to tommorow's crosswords
and the phillips corporation will admit that they've made an awful mistake
and bill gates
will single handedly spearhead the heaven seventeen revival
 
and the chicago cubs will beat every team in the league
and the tampa bay bucs will take it all the way to the top
and i will love you again
i will love you, like i used to
and i will love you again
i will love you, like i used to


going to utrecht

in the morning, i looked down
through the 3rd story window overlooking town
across the water, somewhere, you were sleeping over there
i couldn't believe it, i couldn't belive it.
not if i saw it with my own eyes,
(with my own eyes) x4
in the morning, i looked down
through the 3rd story window overlooking town
and i saw you. and i know you saw me too.
i couldn't belive it. i couldn't believe it.
not if i saw it with my own eyes,
(with my own eyes) x4


cheshire county

when the sun came up, i got up
'cause you were saying my name backwards in your sleep again
the field outside was wet and green, 
and the most goergeous cow i've ever seen
was coming right at me, right at you
her udder was fat with fresh milk
and her black and white coat was as smooth as silk
and in the waning of a long long year
i felt the remnants of last night disappear
(disappear) x7


chanson du bon chose

E                 F
saw the sycamore underneath the moon
Am                            C                        D
i was waiting for something & you were sleeping in the living room
E                              F
and it was five-sixteen a.m. - the air was sharp and cool
Am                                 C            D
and i wondered where you buried our dark little jewel
G                    D
and the heat rising, in the room
C                    D
i am digging graves. i am digging graves
G                                D
and the water boiling, on the stove
C                            D
i am digging graves. i am digging graves
 
so i held you close to me
i saw the shadows start to gather outside beneath the sycamore tree
and something was changing
this was something here entirely new
bursting into blossom inside of us both with the sun coming up and
me holding onto you
 
and your body breathing on mine
i am digging graves. i am digging graves
and your hands running through my hair
i am digging graves. i am digging graves
 


pure money

"...lofi, we hebben het voortaan maar over eh.. bifi, dat lijkt me maar 
het beste."
                                 -or-
"...lofi, from now on we'll talk about ehm.. bifi, i think that's 
better." 
waves crashed all around and near your body
the waves came all over you
and i saw the sky reflected on the ocean
deadly blue 
yeah
(i used to know you) x4
 


i know you've come to take my toys away

sun flashing red and then orange then opting for secession
on the day when you came to the door with you terrible confession
i know you've come to take my toys away and 
i know you've come to take my toys away
 
skin flushing red and then glowing when you come inside
and the moonlight watching all over you i have got my mouth open wide
i know you've come to take my toys away and
i know you've come to take my toys away
and when it drops, you're gonna feel it. 
oh yeah
oh yeah
 


nine black poppies

when i got home i meant to give you some sweet chrysanthemum
the wind chimes were ringing all wrong and you were standing 
in the doorway singing along
and i tried to rememeber how nice it had been
a long long time ago
but i couldn't rememeber.
i honestly could not remember
 
and a package came for you today, from the hunan province
the postmark burning jet black in the summer sun
someone was changing. someone was changing from the inside out
and i turned around to face you.
 
sweet peas in the garden, all in full bloom
and i thought i heard the traces of an old song murmuring in the room
like a half-remembered conversation, i let it slip away
and then i could not rememeber
i honestly could not remember
 
and a package came for you today, from the hunan province
the postmark burning jet black in the summer sun
someone was changing. someone was changing from the inside out
and i turned around to face you.
 


stars fell on alabama

G                D          Cadd9              G
you looked real calm as we made our way up the walk
G                D      Cadd9               G
there were lazy kisses, hands brushing and small talk	
G             D    Em                  C            G      D    G
the moon was high, your smooth face was dry, and the kudzu grew
 
G             D           Cadd9    G
and the stars fell on alabama
G            D                G
and your eyes filled up with light
G            D            Em  C  G    D    G
and the stars fell on alabama
 
the warm earth underneath us gave way
dry grass crinkled like paper as a breeze came in across the bay
cold clean water nearby, glimmered in your eyes 
and your pistol glistened.
and the stars fell on alabama
and your eyes filled up with light
and the stars fell on alabama
but if you think i'll take a bullet for you - you're dreaming.
 


lonesome surprise

alright hit it... 1.2.3.4.
doctor, doctor can you help me please?
all these pills and problems, keep piling down on me
 
(here's your lonesome surprise) x3
go allen.
 
i had a name
had a place
but like the clothes I wear
the holes grow everywhere
'til it's like having nothing at all
 
(here's your lonesome surprise) x3
 walked out of my shower, feeling more wet than baptized
 
(here's your lonesome surprise) x4
whoo yeah...ha-ha.. wow this is global!
...we love you holland...allen callaci...thank you very much
 

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for all hail west texas

 the best ever death metal band in denton.
the best ever death metal band out of denton
were a couple of guys, who'd been friends since grade school.
one was named cyrus, and the other was jeff.
and they practiced twice a week in jeff's bedroom.
the best ever death metal band out of denton
never settled on a name.
but the top three contenders, after weeks of debate,
were satan's fingers, and the killers, and the hospital bombers.
jeff and cyrus believed in their hearts they were headed
for stage lights and leer jets, and fortune and fame.
so in script that made prominent use of a pentagram,
they stenciled their drumheads and guitars with their names.
this was how cyrus got sent to the school 
where they told him he'd never be famous.
and this was why jeff, 
in the letters he'd write to his friend,
helped develop a plan to get even.
when you punish a person for dreaming his dream,
don't expect him to thank or forgive you.
the best ever death metal band out of denton
will in time both outpace and outlive you.
hail satan!
hail satan tonight!
hail satan!
hail hail!
the fall of the star high school running back.
sophomore year, you rushed for an average of eight and a third yards per carry.
all eyes were on you.
junior year, you blew your knee out at an out of town game.
nowhere to go to but down down down.
nothing but the ground left for you to fall to.
by july, you'd made a whole bunch of brand new friends,
people you used to look down on.
and you'd figured out a way to make real money --
givin' ends to your friends, and it felt stupendous.
chrome spokes on your japanese bike,
but selling acid was a bad idea.
and selling it to a cop was a worse one.
and the new law said that seventeen year olds could do federal time.
you were the first one, so i sing this song for you,
william stanaforth donahue,
your grandfather rode the boat over from ireland,
but you made a bad decision or two.
yeah.
color in your cheeks.
she came in on the redeye to dallas-fort worth.
all the way from sunny taipei.
skin the color of a walnut shell,
and a baseball cap holding down her black hair.
and she came here after midnight.
the hot weather made her feel right at home.
come on in, we haven't slept for weeks.
drink some of this. it'll put color in your cheeks.
he drove from in from mexicali, no worse for wear.
money to burn, time to kill.
but five minutes looking in his eyes and we all knew he
was broken pretty bad, so we gave him what we had.
we cleared a space for him to sleep in,
and we let the silence that's our trademark
make its presence felt.
come on in, we haven't slept for weeks.
drink some of this. it'll put color in your cheeks.
they came in by the dozens, walking or crawling.
some were bright-eyed.
some were dead on their feet.
and they came from zimbabwe,
or from soviet, georgia.
east saint louis, or from paris, or they lived across the street.
but they came, and when they'd finally made it here,
it was the least that we could do to make our welcome clear.
come on in, we haven't slept for weeks.
drink some of this. it'll put color in your cheeks.
jenny. 
you roared into the driveway of our southwestern ranch-style house
on a new kawasaki, all yellow and black
fresh out of the showroom.
our house faced west,
so the big orange sun positioned at your back,
lit up your magnificent silhouette.
how much better?
how much better can my life get?
900 cubic centimeters of raw whining power.
no outstanding warrants for my arrest.
whoa-whoa. whoa whoa.
the pirate's life for me.
i hopped on back of the bike, wrapped my arms around you.
and i sank my face into your hair.
and then i inhaled as deeply as i possibly could.
you were as sweet and delicious as the warm desert air.
and you pointed your headlamp toward the horizon,
we were the one thing in the galaxy god didn't have his eyes on.
900 cc's of raw whining power,
no outstanding warrants for my arrest.
hi diddle dee dee.
god damn!
the pirate's life for me!
faultlines.
down here where the heat's so fine 
i'll drink to your heath and you drink to mine 
as we try to make the money we scored out in vegas 
hold out for a while. 
we drink, vodka from russia 
we get our chocolates from belgium 
we have our strawberriest flown in from england.
yeah but none of the money we spend 
seems to do us much good in the end. 
i've got a cracked engine block, both of us do. 
yeah the house and the jewels, the italian race car 
they don't make us feel better about who we are.
i've got termites in the framework, so do you. 
down here where the watermelon grows so sweet 
where i worship the ground underneith of your feet,
we are experts in the art of frivilous spending.
and it's gone on like this, for 3 years i guess 
and we're drunk all the time and our lives are a mess.
and the deathless love we swore to protect with our bodies 
is stumbling across its bleak ending.
but none of the rage in our eyes 
seems to finish it off where it lies.
i got sugar in the fuel lines, both of us do. 
yeah the fights and the lies that we both love to tell 
fail to send our love to it's reward down in hell 
i got pudding for a backbone, so do you! 
la la la la.
hey hey!
balance.
two tall glasses of sweet iced tea
underneath the sweetgum tree,
and the love we once nurtured, you and me,
disintegrating violently.
stick your tongue out.
catch the pieces as they drift down the air.
i am too slow to catch them all,
not too far gone to care.
two slow summer hours spent picking at the bones,
figuring the interest on delinquent loans.
speaking in sad and mournful tones,
trying to squeeze tears out of mute stones.
wet your finger.
place it toward the wind.
feel disaster in the air.
we are far too slow to outrun it now.
not too far gone to care.
pink and blue.
wind out of oklahoma this morning smelled like blood and smoke.
and the crows discuss their future in the branches of 
their louisiana live oak.
the limbs are strong and heavy and its leaves are all aglow.
and the branches brush the upper air,
but the roots reach down to where the bad people go.
and what will i do with you, pink and blue?
true gold. nine days old.
nice new clothes on you and old carboard produce box for a cradle.
i mashed some bananas in a coffee cup and 
i fed you there at the kitchen table.
crows outside complaining about the finer points of local politics.
strange wind all full of new smells -- rust and fur and reception sticks.
and what will i do with you, pink and blue?
true gold. nine days old.
riches and wonders.
we live high. our love gorges on the alcohol we feed it.
and it grows all fat and friendly
we have surplus if we need it.
we hold on as hard as we can.
our knuckles are white.
we write letters to each other, invent secrets to confess to.
i learn foreign and exotic terms of endearment by which to address you.
we feed fresh fruit to one another.
we stay up all night.
i am healthy, i am whole, but i have poor impulse control.
and i want to go home.
but i am home.
we are strong, we are faithful,
we are guardians of a rare thing.
we pay close careful attention to the news the morning air brings.
we show great loyalty to the hard times we've been through.
we are filled with riches and wonders,
our love keeps the things it finds.
and we dance like drunken sailors, lost at sea out of our minds.
you find shelter somewhere in me,
i find great comfort in you.
and i keep you safe from harm.
you hold me in your arms, and i want to go home.
but i am home
the mess inside.
we took a weekend, drove to provo.
the snow was white and fluffy.
but a weekend in utah won't fix what's wrong with us.
the gray sky was vast and real cryptic above me.
i wanted you to love me like you used to do.
we took two weeks in the bahamas.
went out dancing every night.
tried to fight the creeping sense of dread with temporal things.
most of the time i guess i felt alright.
but i wanted you to love me like you used to do.
but you cannot run
and you cannot hide,
from the wreck we've made of our house,
and from the mess inside.
we went down to new orleans
one weekend in the spring.
looked hard for what we'd lost.
it was painful to admit it, but we couldn't find a thing.
i wanted you to love me like you used to do.
we went to new york city in september.
took the train out of manhattan to the grand army stop.
found that bench we'd sat together on a thousand years ago
when i felt such love for you i thought my heart was gonna pop.
i wanted you to love me like you used to do.
but i cannot run.
and i can't hide.
from the wreck we've made of our house.
from the mess inside.
jeff davis county blues.
after three nights in jail, i head north from toyavale.
switch to 285 in pecos, head up to red bluff.
my walk's real steady and my eyes are real cold
but i feel like i'm all of sixteen years old --
lost in the travel lodge, with the television on with the sound down,
i don't feel so tough.
old issues of sunset magazine to read,
sleep for twelve hours, and dream about home.
i have no place to go, so i drive up to new mexico.
fix my eyes in the rearview when i cross the state line.
and i panic, i guess. and although it's quite late,
i take the first exit to 128. 
i am coming back to midlind.
i hope you won't mind.
polaroids of the two of us scattered on the passenger's seat.
i drive slowly
and evenly
and i dream about home.
distant stations.
i found an old rock in the dry dirt outside
the door of my motel room.
it was a triangle with soft rounded edges
and a split down the middle of one corner.
it was darker than english moss.
green like the soft frills of a peacock's plume.
i waited for you, but i never told you where i was.
it was you who taught me how to write these kinds of equations.
i waited on the steps for you,
and i hid in the bushes whenever a car pulled into the parking lot.
you taught me how to listen to these distant stations.
distant stations.
i saw the sky break.
i threw a rock at a crow who was playing in the mulch of some rose bushes by the motel office.
missed him by a good yard or two.
i sang old songs from nowhere.
los angeles.
albuquerque.
i said a small prayer for the poor and the naked and the hungry.
and i prayed real hard for you.
i waited for you, but i never told you where i was.
it was you who taught me how to write this kind of equation.
i waited on the steps for you,
and i hid in the bushes whenever a car pulled into the parking lot.
you taught me how to listen to these distant stations.
distant stations.
blues in dallas.
will i see you there when that final trumpet blows?
will i see you there when that final trumpet blows?
if i don't see you there, i will run a comb through my hair.
and i will wait.
i will wait.
i will wait.
will you walk on in when the angel summons you?
will you walk on in when the angel summons you?
if i don't see you go, i will let the minions flow.
and i will wait.
i will wait.
i will wait.
down in dealey plaza, the tourists mill about.
down in dealey plaza, the tourists mill about.
and i am far from where we live, and i have not learned how to forgive.
but i will wait.
i will wait.
i will wait.
yeah.
 source decay.
once a week
i make the drive
two hours east
to check the austin post office box
and i take the detour
through our old neighborhood
see all the chevy impalas
in their front yards up on blocks
and i park in an alley
and i read through the post cards you continue to send
where as indirectly as you can
you ask what i remember
i like these tortured deviced from my old best friend
well i'll tell you what i know
like i swore i always would
i don't think it will do you any good
i remember the train headed south out of bangkok 
down toward the water.
i always get a late start
when the sun's going down
and the traffic's filling out
and the glare is hard to take
i wish the west texas highway was a mobius strip
i could ride it out for ever
when i feel my heart break
i almost swear i hear it happen
in fact clean and not hard
i come in off the highway and i park in my front yard
fall out of the car
like a hostage from a plane
think of you awhile
start wishing it would rain
and i remember the train heading south out of bangkok 
down, down towards, the water.
come in to the house
put on a pot of coffee
walk the floors a little while
set your postcard on the table
with all the others like it
start sorting threw the pile
check the pictures
and the postmarks
and the captions
and the stamps
for a sign of any pattern at all
when i come up empty handed
the feeling almost overwhelms me
i let a few of my defenses fall
and i smile a bitter smile
it is not a pretty sight to see
i think about a railroad platform back in 1983
and i remember the train heading south out of Bangkok 
down, down towards, the water. 
absolute lithops effect.
after one long season of waiting,
after one long season of wanting,
i am breaking open.
my insides are pink and raw.
and i hurts me when i move my jaw,
but i am taking tiny steps forward.
and i... i feel sure that my wounds will heal.
and i, i will bloom here in my room.
with a little water.
and a little bit of sunlight.
and a little bit of tender mercy,
tender
mercy.
the big trucks come up the highway.
and the big wheels rattle my windows.
and night, night comes to texas.
after one blind season alone in here,
after one long sweltering summer,
i, i'm going to find the exit.
and i will go to the house of a friend i know.
and i will let myself forget.
with a little water.
and a little bit of sunlight.
and a little bit of tender mercy,
tender
mercy.

lyrics file for see america right single

new chevrolet in flames
we were drinking colorado bulldogs
when inspiration struck 
and we knew it was high time 
for us to change our own luck
we cracked a couple coca colas open 
mixed them up with vodka and some coffee liqueur 
poured in some cold milk and raised our glasses high to old friends
my love for you is ninety-eight percent pure. 
but the two percent that remains
has fried the circuits in my brain.
I got out my smoking jacket. 
you put on some fishnets and your smart black beret,
we cut quite a figure in the mirror 
and then we were on our way.
oh would that you would kiss me 
with the kisses of your mouth.
cause your mouth is sweeter than wine 
and has a more complicated history than the american south.
as the evening 
took us in 
you could've popped the tension 
with a safety pin.
we went down to pete brown chevrolet, 
cause pete brown satisfy all your new car needs.
we were nicely oiled by then 
our internal transponders picking up satellite feeds 
from well worn ancient places.
our eager young sales rep handed us the keys.
we drove about three quarters of a mile, 
all that's left for us now are moments like these.
we parked behind the high school away from the light.
and the flames climbed high into the night.
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this
design your own container garden
I took to the highway, went out to pico-crenshaw.
old friends, old friends.
I took to the highway. The highway took to me like a second skin.
rolled around in the evening, circling like a buzzard.
trouble in mind.
excavating the space we left behind.
yes I took trinkets with me. left them by the crater.
here ghosts, old ghosts.
smelled all the chlorine. I took the low road where the light was just right.
crawled around in the glowing. all embracing wreckage.
sunburned and snow-blind.
excavating the space we left behind.
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for you and what army?


going to bangkor

the ocean wind cold on our lips,
the wild fern growing, sinking ships,
all the signs are easy to read.
in the morning you come my way,
your skin is pink, the sky is gray,
there's resh cranberries in you mouth
with thick red water dripping out.
you expect me to beleive everything you say, well o.k.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for back to the egg, asshole
lyrics file for back to the egg, asshole


wild palm city
or: within you, without you
i see five fingers on each hand.
i see only as far as my arms can stretch.
after that it all gets kinda blurry.
i see the air compressor vent where it rises
up from the hot ground, but i'm not afraid.
i see what's going through
it's you, only it's bigger and better and brighter.
i got the sofa set up right here.
i got a room, a room full of sand.
open up your mouth, and buddy, you'll wish that you hadn't.
i feel the new day coming on strong.
i see cindy and she's talking up a storm.
i remember her, and i see who she's bringing.
it's you, only it's bigger and thinner and wider.
i touch the leaves of the plant next to me.
they're thicker than they were the last time i touched them
and it curls quickly around my hand
there are stars up there even when you can't see them
i'll tell you something that really bothers me.
how are we supposed to get anything done?
with those starts casting shadows that look just like spiders?
yeah, it's you, but this time you're coiled up much tighter.
 


 
return to the the Mountain Goats...

please mail any questions/comments/complaints, or just notes hello to:<a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for babylon springs ep


ox baker triumphant

I will rise from the swamp where they dumped my private plane,
I'll be clutching the life preserver in my teeth.
and I will find the highway
and I will flag down a truck 
worry lines on my forehead, blank stare underneath
and when I come back to town 
I'm gonna cast my burden down
a little worse for wear
practically walking on air
I will thank my ride and crawl my way back inside 
to the guts of the building where my enemies
hide in the dark like roaches.
and I will signal the camera crew and everyone will do
what he's been trained how to do.
sweat dripping from my face as my moment approaches.
click your heels, count to three.
I bet you never expected me
a little worse for wear
practically walking on air
thanks to j. spaceman for transcibing these

alibi

I got off work just past eleven 
laid one finger to the breeze.
you can almost taste the action
on nights like these.
trees were bending in the wind.
you were forty miles away.
and I was headed in your direction.
I've been waiting all day, I've been waiting all day.
moon over west covena was huge and white.
and I was like a patient on a table,
headed for the light
lean toward the center divider
feel the wind in my hair
keep a light up in your window
I'm gonna be right there, I'm gonna be right there
with a gleam in my eye
and an almost airtight alibi.
down by the chemistry building
I found a quiet place to park.
and I made my way down the street toward your place
stepping lightly in the dark
climbed the steps up to your doorway
like a man prepared to jump underneath a train.
it's real warm outside tonight.
maybe tommorow it rains, maybe tommorow it rains.
inside your room we shut the window
and we turned on a fan.
and we lay there together in the darkness
I can keep a secret if you can.
finishing one another's sentences
like a pair of identical twins.
your boyfriend's out of town until tuesday
and nobody saw me come in, nobody saw me come in.
with a gleam in my eye 
and an almost airtight alibi.
thanks to j. spaceman for transcibing these

sail babylon springs

but meanwhile downstairs, I'm setting up shop.
a little too proud to let the matter drop
and I can hear you up there.
isn't it romantic?
you're huffing and puffing rearranging
deck chairs on the titanic.
and I reach for a glass of cool water drawn,
from the rivers of babylon.
and meanwhile outside, the stars have come out.
and the humid summer air pulls at the ring in my snout.
and you stand at your window looking down,
and I spread wide my arms.
jump if you want to jump, jump if you want to.
the water's warm.
I know.
I know 'cause i've been swimming.
blindly along through the rivers of babylon.
thanks to andy moskowitz for these

sometimes I still feel the bruise

Originally by Trembling Blue Stars
this is just to say hello
and to let you know I think of you from time to time.
I know I never really knew you, but somehow I miss you.
and wish that you'd stayed in my life
making contact gets harder as the silence grows longer.
and isn't it only me
who'd like us to see each other?
how I would hate to be a bother.
the way we left it was you'd ring.
I'm under no illusion
as to what I meant to you
but you made an impression
and sometimes I still feel the bruise
sometimes I still feel the bruise
now and then I stumble on
what I've misplaced but never lost
an ache I first felt long ago
though you've appeared and disappeared
throughout these past few years
I'd be surprised if you now showed.
making contact gets harder as the silence grows longer.
and why would you think of me
when you were not the one in love,
when you were not the dreamer,
when you were just the dream?
I'm under no illusion as to what I meant to you.
but you made an impression, and sometimes I still feel the bruise.
sometimes I still feel the bruise.
thanks to andy moskowitz for these

wait for you

when it came time to wait for you,
I took the bus to malibu.
found a cafe by the ocean
watched the sky for signs
and a rainbow in the west
wrapped its coils around the earth like a serpent.
I felt like I was going to suffocate.
but I knew this was not the day you would finally come my way.
but I waited all the same,
watched the water through the window.
and a rainbow in the west
held its head beneath the waves and grew dimmer.
nothing anyone could do I suppose.
thanks to andy moskowitz for these
if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net


lyrics file for cool beans #4


the last day of jimi hendrix's life

on the last of his life, jimi hendrix woke up
and made his way down the hall
and he adjusted the knobs on the shower till the water came out just the 
way he liked it
it was hot but not too hot
it was hot but not too hot
on the last afternoon of his life, jimi hendrix went to the kitchen
and got himself a glass of water
he put four ice cubes into the glass
there is nothing like cold water
there is nothing
thanks go out to andrew lison for transcribing this...
Lemon
If you cut a lemon in half
You'll have two distinct pieces
Each one representing
One half of a lemon
Yet now,
Its not so much of a lemon
As it is two distinct pieces
Of that lemon
Licking the lemon juice off the knife
Is dangerous
Imagine cutting the corner of your mouth
And then lemon juice
Ouch
But you already know that the knife
had little, if anything, to do
With creating two distinct pieces
Of that lemon
Sure, the rind and the pulp
Were split by serrated metal
(The wooden handle a little loose from when dad
did the funny thing with his teeth)
much thanks to mark givens for these lyrics.


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for bedside recordings 1.2


soft targets

you cry when you get drunk
and i can't find the right things to say.
sooner or later you'll start breaking plates
and i'll do what i can to stay out of your way.
there is nobody innocent here.
i got more blood on my hands than you do.
its you and its me and the baby makes three.
yeah but we've got our love to carry us through.
we've got our love to carry us through.
i cry when i'm hungry
something is wrong with my brain.
and the ghost of our future's awake in the attic.
he moans and he wails as he rattles his chain. 
we embrace on the floor in the kitchen,
emissaries  from neighboring lands
when i hunt down the vampire that did this to us,
i will rip out his heart with my hands.
i will rip out his heart with my hands.
thanks to missy mazzaferro for these

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for letter to belgium single

nova scotia
coming in off nova scotia
yellow sun in the blue sky
all those cat-tails in the wind
I got something in my eye
listen, everything I love I will devour
and bury the bones down in the snow
put me in a beat up el camino
just let me go, just let me go
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this
attention all pickpockets
in comes you, not the same person I knew
Looking roughly the same but something hungry getting restless in your brain
hey hey hey hey hey
so there I go, not the same person that you used to know
peeking through the fisheye lens at you
and the coronet blows
where the oleander grows
and us two, not the same people that our old friends knew
and so down the street, you head, in the high summer heat
white long sleeved Oxford pushed up to just before your elbows
black pumps and a medium length black skirt
eating a path through the dark damp Earth
I hope they've got plenty of money where you're going
and the coronet blows
where the oleander grows
and us two, not the same people that our old friends knew
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for the believer june/july 2005 music issue

pet politics
guard my bed
while the rain turns the ditches to mirrors.
buy a vase of carnations
from central ohio where the looking machine can't hear us.
deep in the night we dream of positions
there's a line for the phone in the hall
and in the cold places where spanish is spoken,
most wars end in the fall.
you never know when your pet will go.
pet politics
still wearing last night's mascara
now that her pet was gone for sure.
she was shivering so hard,
it looked like there were two of her.
i can see through the sleeve on her blouse
the mute plans of her architect lover.
a tattoo of a boarded up house,
an ink door that belonged to another.
when the rain hits you, it hits you slow.
stitch after stitch.
stitch after stitch.
adam was not the first man,
though the bible tells us so.
there was one created before him
whose name we do not know.
he also lived in the garden,
but he had no mouth or eyes.
one day adam came to kill him
and he died beneath these skies.
i find it so amazing how
i go where i'm lead.
i go where i'm lead.
i go where i'm lead.
i go where i'm lead.
i suspect we could be losing now.
please guard my bed.
please guard my bed.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
beautiful rat sunset
beautiful rat sunset


itzcuintli-totzli days

i hear the pads beat, loud as drums.
i know he's coming. let him come.
chorus
let the big big rabbit come out.
let the big big rabbit come down.
let him cast his shadow on the bright face of our little house.
let him dance through the garden. 
let him come.
it's getting darker, as the sky grows colder
and i feel your hand on my naked shoulder.
praise god i know you're with me. i know you're here.
i can feel you breathing. i know you're near me. 
ok
[chorus]

new star song

i hung pictures of you from every lamp post in town
as the humidity climbed into numbers i don't care to repeat
the air was heavy and the sky was alive
and the pacific starlight train wasn't due in till 11.45
chorus
i thought about how cold you must be
i thought about things i thought that i'd soon be forgetting
i thought of you up in canada as the lightning storm lit up
all downtown redding
there were teenagers in mini-trucks coming around every corner
you can taste the adrenaline, coming out through their skin
i came to the well-lit doorway of a sheet music store
saw my face in the glass. sat down in the doorway and i settled in.
[chorus]

song for cleomenes

73 years before the advent of the christian era,
as rome was taking over any land within reach,
setting up proxy governmnents in the conquered lands,
there lived one such man given just such a job.
gaius verres. go.
a praetor held a position which operated on trust.
he was to govern instead of the emperor himself.
it was an easy easy privilege to abuse.
and verres did so.
he was the governor of agrigentum which we now know as sicily.
and he stole everything that wasn't nailed down,
took improper advantage of other men's wives.
the list goes on. trust me.
cicero wrote it all down.
at syracuse verres welcomed a band of pirates.
they all drank and danced and sang on the shore,
and when the husband of one of verres's paramours
came bringing a fleet of boats with him, 
verius, clever, if diabolical, gave him a job.
and enlisted the pirates to burn the whole fleet down.
the boats burned in the sicilian harbor
the flames rose hundreds of feet into the air
we stood on the shore watching them burn we stood
on the shore, we heard the old songs. hey!

sendero cuminoso verdado

[spoken]
as they age, men encounter the 6th fear - loss of verility.
just look him straight in the eye, invade his space by 
standing a little closer than normal...
by 8.30 am the sun was so hot, that it made me remember.
i pulled on the jacket with the bars on the pockets 
and i stood in front of the window
and the skin on my face has a memory all its own
and it drinks in the pure heat, real slow.
i remember lima. i remember the good life.
i remember lima. i remember the good life.
the window is ten feet high and three feet wide
sun beams bounce off the dark water 
and come through the clear glass, magnified.
standing here in the house on pacific coast highway
given to me by a friend whose name is no longer important
my conscience is clean.
and the feeling of power like thick red wine
and it's oh-nine-oh-five military time
i remember lima. i remember the good life.
i remember lima. i remember the good life.

song for mark and joel

i opened up the window and the cold air came in.
and i saw a bird on a branch outside
that i had never seen before.
he looked a robin, but it had an upside down v-shaped
red mark on its chest.
and i had a special feeling in my mind
and i had a special feeling in my mind
i had a certain glint in my eye,
on the morning trouble came by.
there was a map of the american-midwest on one wall.
and there was a map of the american-west on another wall.
and there was a map of rome on the third wall.
and there were maps in all direrctions.
i was looking at them pondering connections
when trouble came by.
then i stuck my head out the window.
i had to stick my head out the window.
it was much colder than i'd imagined it would be.
it was much much colder than i'd imagined it would be.
it was much much colder.
it was much much colder and trouble came by.

going to maryland

the water's real cool and the water's real sweet
here's hoping that no points repeat
because i bet against the chances that you'd ever be mine
laid everything down on the don't pass line
chorus
and it's a stupid trick of fortune anyway
but the lights are bright tonight
and your eyes shine tonight on chesapeke bay
walk through the water and our feet get wet
and on the dark ended water i see your silhouette
5 dollars says that it's gone in a minute
5 dollars says that your heart goes with it
[chorus]

seeing daylight

two cans clear chicken broth
two white onions
one bulb garlic
boil, boil.
boil, boil.
and the screams of delight from the pool outside
the splashing sounds
the coffee heating up on the stove
the sky outside. the color of pure fresh milk.
boil, boil.
boil, boil.
and the phone ringing, and me picking it up
and watching myself do so
in the quiet room
in the june evening and your voice on the other end
and the impossibility of your voice on the other end
and the impossible echo. inside.
boil, boil.
boil, boil.

resonant bell world

sometimes you're a starling
sometimes you're a kite
you're a hyena from early to mid afternoon
you're a stray dog at night
it's the most amazing thing i've ever seen
how you will not act like a human being
when you put on your special coat
and you made your special lunge for my throat
between you and me,
it was, it was, really exciting
it's the most alarming thing i've ever seen
how you will not act like a human being
it's the most incredible thing i've ever seen
how you refuse to act like a human being
in the starlight.
in the starlight.
in the starlight.
in the starlight.
in the starlight.
in the starlight.
in the starlight.
in the starlight.
lyrics file for chile de arbol


night of the mules

the street lights gave off an yellow glow
on the holly and the mistletoe
you could feel the rain, coming down.
and quiet starlight, hardened the ground.
till the street shone like a diamond
look sister, here comes a new genuine disaster.
clip-clop up the street,
see the rain, feel the sleet, yeah.
the cold air, unpredictable weather,
ten or twenty of us, huddled together,
hearing the braying, growing louder
snowflakes falling fine white powder.
here come, the new kings
the hooves clack and the metal sings
clip-clop up the street 
see the rain, feel the sleet, yeah.


going to malibu

when we meet on neutral ground,
i can't belive how good you look.
and the thoughts that race around my mind,
fill a long unreadable book and
i can hear the waves,
i can sense the continent eroding,
you say you know why i called you here,
but you couldn't have any way of knowing, so
that's not true.
that's a mean thing to say.
that's a damnable lie.
that's a damnable lie.
looking at you, and i don't know
what it is i see
but i know you're changing, almost indetectably.
and i see a ship off the shore
and i imagine it sinking.
and you smile and you say that you know
what it is that i'm thinking.
that's not true.
that's a rotten thing to say.
that's a damnable lie.
that's a damnable lie.


billy the kid's dream of the magic shoes

hang me out to dry.
they're gonna hang me out to dry.
i don't really care.
i don't really care.
i got special shoes.
i got special shoes.
they're gonna fill me full of holes.
they're gonna fill me full of holes.
i don't give a rat's ass.
i don't give a rat's ass you rat bastards.
i got special shoes on.
i got special shoes on.
yeah.


fresh berries for you

the world's overrun with new shades of green,
and the dandelions come up like recurring dreams
and the swallows give up their fragile little songs
in the new world
and i know you're only watching out for yourself,
and i know i'm not to take it real personal-like
and i know you only want what's best for everybody.
i know you only want what's best for everybody.
but you better be nice, or the easter bunny's
gonna strike your name out of the
little red book with the silver hinges on it
that he carries.
they've implemented a new system on the
exhaust lines of the buses
and now the air is fresh and sweet and clean when they pass by.
and the bright sun shines down on our fair city,
and young cats play on people's front lawns.
and the time is coming.
and the time is coming.
and i can feel the time coming.
and i know that you can feel the time coming, yourself.
and the easter bunny's coming,
and god knows i'd hate for you to miss it.
and it's gonna be so nice.
when the easter bunny comes.
and it's gonna be so nice.
when the easter bunny comes.
and it's gonna be so nice.
when the easter bunny comes.
and it's gonna be so nice.
when the easter bunny comes.


alphabetizing

the summer crawled by indetectably.
and then i saw you looking down to me.
and your earrings sparkled in the noon-day sun,
and though it's very true that i love everyone,
with every ounce of energy left in me,
i love you especially because
i saw you, coming through
the screen door on the second floor,
up on the balcony.
it was hard to even see you at all,
because the air was thick with alcohol
so i kept on rubbing my eyes,
for all the good it did me,
for all the immeasurable good it did me,
let the years come and take away my memory,
i will not forget the shock that ran through me when,
i saw you, coming through
the screen door on the second floor,
up on the balcony.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for new asian cinema


Cao Dai Blowout

he came knocking down the street lights
tearing up the new grass on the lawn
he was frightening off the livestock
I could feel him coming down
I let the Citranella dissolve in my hand
I began to feel real bad
when the ghost of your father comes to town
what the hell else can you do
I flung open all the windows
put the water on for tea
and let him pass right through
he took to knocking over furniture
getting into the reception on the wireless
he tore up all the dry goods in the pantry
he was strong and he was tireless
when the priest came to call, I sent him on his way
I got a tremor in my hands and my feet are made of clay
when the ghost of your father starts pushing you around
how are you gonna make him stop
I took down all the crosses, I let him set up shop

korean bird paintings

yesterday I put in a good 5 hours
talking to the statues
chased your memory all around the room
didn't manage to catch you
but I cleaned out the savings account
blew everything I had on flowers
covered up the furniture in carnations
rolled around for hours
there are those of you, who got the wrong idea right now
but man you should of seen me when I got through
indistinguishable from a fourth century Briton
waiting on the couch for you
I put all the extras on the credit card
mobiles of the galaxy and mylar balloons
everything we'd saved up in one room at the same time
cartoon stars, crescent moons
thank you notes, get well cards
condolences, congratulations
bright colors, hues and signals
reminders and reverberations

Narakaloka

the cabbages that I will grow
one by one and row by row
will fatten in the spring sun
and breathe in the evening air
you will hear them breathing
if you walk by at night
you may not hear them after all
but that's all right
I've set the table for two
I've cleaned the windows for you
I've got cinnamon from Jakarta
for making French toast
the doctor says that I've got
thirty days left at most
the cabbages that I will grow
the love songs on the radio
will deepen in the springtime
theylle be brighter than the stars

golden jackal song

well I swung through town
shining like a new quarter
felt something sharp rise up within me
when I crossed the border
stopped at the gas station payphone
I let my fingers fly
the wicked impulses were dying
but I couldn't let them die
and we were over at your place
singin' about the old times
no one had anything to prove
I ate so much carrion
that I could not move
I was bloated
when I saw you in the kitchen
glistening like the old country
all your cups and glasses
lined up in front of me
and I stopped at the faucet for a minute
waited til you came in to see what was wrong
and your fingers brushed my ribs playfully
and I played along
and you had your tongue in my mouth
your eyes glistening in the light
I ate rich raw carrion
til I couldn't think right
I was full

treetop song

All along the interstate
the palm trees were calling out to me
the line of them stretched fown the highway forever
as far as I could see
I waited til the sun was coming up
light morning traffic and a cool spring breeze
I heard the old voices calling down
from the tops of the trees
when I got up to the top, my head got light
for a minute everything in the world was alright
I saw the next tree just 10 feet away
give or take a few feet I guess
then I pushed off into the air with all my might
headed out into the center of the morning light
I knew that I was gonna make it
the new tree hardly shook to acknowledge my arrival
I knew that I would be alright
come, come to the sunset tree
Lyrics file for come, come to the sunset tree
Note: This file contains only songs that were not included on the sunset tree.

collapsing stars
when we hid out behind the risers at he high school,
working bitter calculations with a slide rule.
the grim particulars of poisoning the swimming pool,
well you looked me in the eye,
ready to die.
we were becoming what we are,
collapsing stars.
when we chewed up baby aspirin like bubble gum,
til our hearts were beating as deep and rich as kettle drums
we knew if we waited long enough the change would come.
and then the day did come and at last
hold tight.
hold fast.
catch lightning in a jar,
collapsing stars.
I told you to load up on provisions,
because we wouldn't be back for a while.
pack up your troubles in your old kit bag
turn toward the camera and smile, smile, smile.
when we ditched the plan to poison all our enemies,
stuffed our weapons in a clearing, and covered them with leaves,
we are going to come rejoicing bringing in the sheaves
one day, and we are on our way.
you can look,
but you won't find
another love like ours,
collapsing stars.
high doses #2
we all woke up that morning,
claw marks on our little faces.
the dull thud from the treetops
the echo in the hollow places
rose up high and lonely
wringing my hands, grinding my teeth
all the triumph overhead
all the disaster underneath
spat out my morning prayers
desperate pleas and viscious lies.
felt the sunlight thugh the grating,
coverered up my eyes.
woke up feeling awful
shook my head to drive the ghosts way
this is just a flesh wound
and it will clear up any day.
but the present i got planned for you pricks,
is gonna be a little harder to fix.
thank god
for small favors
in high doses.
heard the voices through the air vents
listen to them squeal
the great big world is out there
the hidden one beneath my heel
called up my sister in reseda,
left a message at the tone.
all the points where contact fails us
all of the dead spots in the zone
and the acid in my throat
every time i try to talk
the songs that keep me up at night
standing on that solid rock
rose up high and dry and lonely
stumbled coming out the gate
this is just a paper cut
and it will scab over just you wait.
but the cuts that i'll shortly being dealing out,
are gonna give you something to cry about.
thank god
for small favors
in high doses.
the day the aliens came
hey, mr. hughes and mr. vanderslice, uh this is a new song 
i'm really excited aboo, about, and uh and so since i wrote
it on my old cort guitar instead of the new one i, i want to
play on that just for purposes of 'cause i've been writing
it and so forth so that's why it sounds a little beat up and
flat and everything, 'cause these strings are old and everything,
so sorry about that, uh, it's i-, it's in A. i think i'm tuned to an A.
it should be called hawaiian feeling, but it probably can't be
called that.  um, ok, right. alright.
I will wake up at six a.m. again.
and I will find my way to the front door
like a soldier crawling through the smoking carnage.
smoldering bodies at my feet,
I'd love to stick around, but I've got someone to meet.
and I will put my best foot forward.
and I'll thank god I made it out of there
on the day when my new friends come.
I will present myself in my nice white tuxedo jacket.
and I will look out at the day through my dark sunglasses,
and take in the scene.
the house behind me and the people in it
will all go up like steam in just a minute.
there's gonna be a redefining of some borders,
and I will receive my orders
on the day when my new friends come.
the rooftops and the sidewalks
will all melt like pastic.
and oh friends, old friends, dear friends,
I'm gonna look fantastic.
there won't be any reason left to cry
'cause there won't be any people left to cry for.
my memory's gonna vaporize itself.
and my italian shoes, well, they will be to die for.
I believe I can fly.
might you look up at me and wave goodbye
on the day when my new friends come?

lyrics file for the coroner's gambit


jaipur

------
i was having visions of sugar pastry
cooked up in clarified butter
i tried to turn my visions into prayers
but i built my castle way high up in the air
yeah i came to the gates of the fabled pink city
hungry, and tired, and cold
swing low sweet chariot
chrome tail pipe shining bright as spun gold
my brothers picked me up out of the rushes
handed me into the company of evil men
but I've inched my way down the eastern seaboard
i am coming to Atlanta again
yeah i came to the gates of the fabled pink city
hungry, and tired, and mad as all hell
swing low sweet jewel-encrusted chariot
make me young again 
make me well
i am the killer dressed in pilgrim's clothing.
i'm the hard to find stations on the AM band.
i am the white sky high over tripoli
i am the land mine hidden in the sand.
yeah i came to the gates of the fabled pink city
hungry, and tired, and alone
sweet low sweet sweet sweet chariot
coming forth to carry me home

Elijah

------
streak the windows.
smear the walls with coconut oil, yeah.
fill a cast iron kettle with water and magnolia blossom.
let it boil. 
let the water roll.
let the fire take its toll.
i'm coming home.
i'm coming home.
dust off the idols.
give them something to eat.
i think they're hungry.
i know i'm starving half to death.
i know you're waiting.
i know you've been waiting for a long long time.
and i'm coming home.
i'm coming home.
set the table.
those three extra places -- 
one for me,
one for your doubts,
and one for god.
let the incense burn in every room.
feel the fullness of time in the empty tomb.
feel the future kicking in your womb.
i'm coming home.
i'm coming home.

seneca's trick mirror

------------
seventeen years ago, they told me to teach you everything i know.
i let the fire rain down, rain down.
watched it flare up inside his heart.
saw it tearing him completely apart,
head to toe, i know.
and blood will run through the streets of Rome today,
and roll across the ocean.
fourteen years ago tonight
watched him tearing through the garden killing everything in sight.
i let my curiosity get the best of me.
i saw the source-less anger eating at him from inside.
no one around him to stem the rising tide.
evil from his head down to his feet 
quinine's bitter.
sugar's sweet.
and blood will run through the streets of Rome today,
and roll across the ocean.

island garden song

-----------
i will sail to the far shore,
and i will chop a hole in the hull too big to repair,
and i will turn the soil with my hands,
and i will make my home there.
my garden will grow so high.
my garden will grow so high.
that i will be completely hidden.
i will go where i will go,
and i will jettison all dead weight,
and i will use these words for kindling,
and i will sleep by the garden gate.
my garden will grow so high.
my garden will grow so high.
that i will be completely hidden.

the Coroner's gambit

--------------------
when death came calling today,
i heard the gentle grace of his cadences.
i couldn't say no.
i couldn't say no.
when he showed me his new silk scarves
laid out on a shiny black plastic tray,
couldn't say, couldn't say, couldn't say, couldn't say, couldn't say no.
i couldn't say no.
and i'm sorry i couldn't.
do you know how badly i wanted to?
didn't want, didn't want, didn't want, didn't want, didn't want to lose you,
but his smile was dazzling mmmm,
and his eyes were sparkling like moonlight on the water at midnight.
couldn't say, couldn't say, couldn't say, couldn't say, couldn't say, couldn't say no.
i couldn't say no.

baboon

------
the sun came up above the strange white plain.
blood red flowers all wet with rain
and the spirit wasn't really willing anymore, but the flesh was very very strong.
and i've got very little money left, and i've got no sense,
but I'll have none of your god damned impudence.
the sun came up above the new white fields, 
everything was new again.
pure power, stripped of meaning, sky burning, spring cleaning.
daisies on the hillside like cancer on the skin.
pretty little yellow eyes that flutter in the wind,
I'd be grateful my children aren't here here to see this,
if you'd ever seen fit to give me children.
and my defenses may be working with a skeleton crew,
but I'll be skinned alive before I'll take this from you.
the sun came up above the ocean out west, 
all the colors of the rainbow.
stand up straight, you can see the house leaning.
day breaking, spring cleaning.

scotch grove

----------------
on the way home from the party,
neither of us said a word.
leann rimes on the car stereo
sang that song you know I hate.
the one about the blackbird
and the rain came down on the windshield-
i wished it would wash us both away. 
you had to open up your mouth, didn't you?
i knew what you were gonna say.
and you were Bluebeard's wife
opening every cupboard, trying to find the smoking gun.
well i told you i told you,
i told you not to open that one.

horseradish road

----------------
the way that everybody's voice, comes out muffled when they speak,
the way we take our diminishing inventories, 
month to month and
week to week,
the maria callas records on the stereo all the time
you're gonna get yours and i'm gonna get mine.
'cause in this car, in this car,
somebody's bound to get burned.
i know.
i know.
because i've been watching the road turn.
the enigma variations on the radio
the things that i could guess at,
the things that i already know.
and the twelve thousand dollars that turned up in your purse,
you've done something awful.
i've done something worse.
and in this car, in this car,
somebody's bound to get burned.
i know.
i know.
because i've been watching the road turn.

family happiness

----------------
as we cruised across the Canadian border
you reached into your handbag, pulled out a micro-cassette recorder,
started quoting Tolstoy into the machine,
i had no idea what you meant.
i guess i'm supposed to figure these things out, 
or maybe it's supposed to be self-evident.
but i've gone feral,
and i don't speak the language anymore.
we're headed deep into the forest, i've got the pedal to the floor.
the engine shudders, like a dying man, when you reach out to grab my hand,
you can bring out all your weapons,
you can't make me go to war.
long winding Canadian highways,
innumerable evergreens.
weather forecast on the AM radio
says we'll be expecting highs in the low teens
when i mouth my silent curses at you,
i can see my breath.
i hope the stars don't even come out tonight.
i hope we both freeze to death.
look at the person i've turned into, tell me,
how do you like him now?
no standards of any kind to break, no creeds to disavow
i am right here where you want me
do what you brought me out here for.
you can arm me to the teeth.
you can't make me go to war.

onions

--------------------
the last white slabs of snow
melted off seven weeks ago.
and the geese are headed north again
through the tightening sky,
and i can feel my heart in my throat again
new onions growing in the ground.
the cows come gingerly out of the barn,
and when they see that the ground is warm,
they pick up a little speed,
it makes me feel so good,
and i feel it rushing down my throat -- fresh blood,
i head out onto the earth,
its cold heart is melting,
i don't know if i can stand it.
springtime's coming, that means you'll be coming back around.
new onions growing underground, underground.

"bluejays and cardinals"

----------------------
bluejays and cardinals all come out to play
highway traffic gets out of your way
skies clear up if they're overcast.
pit bulls are gentle when you come past.
stars come out of hiding for you
and i would too.
cause this world couldn't hold you
you slipped free
yeah this world couldn't hold you
you slipped free
without me.
new sheen all over everything
when you open up your mouth to sing.
baseballs travel further when you watch them fly.
apples fatten on the trees when you walk by.
you bring something unreplaceble to each and every day.
or you used to anyway.
but this world couldn't hold you
and you slipped free
yeah this world couldn't hold you
and you slipped free
without me.

shadow song

-----------
if you get there before me, will you save me a seat?
if you get there before me, would you save me a seat?
but if i never get there at all,
would you leave the seat empty?
if you get there before me, will you light us a fire?
if you get there before me, will you light us a fire?
but if i never show,
will you watch the embers glow?
would you keep the fire burning?
this is a song for you, in case i never make it through to where you are.
this is a song for you, in case i never make it through to where you are.

there will be no divorce

------------------------
the rain fell all night and it kept me awake
it was still falling by morning.
it was hard to take.
and you were sleeping on the floor,
breathing free and even,.
if i ever want to drive myself insane,
all i have to do is watch you breathing
and at 5 AM, i turned the radio on,
and an old mans voice sang a short sweet song,
and then the static roared again hungry for blood
i heard the rain falling from the rain spout
down down into the sweet wet mud,
and you punched out all the windows
and the wind began to wail
and you gathered your hair behind your head
like god was gonna catch you by the pony tail,
and then the old voice crackled through the static.
and i felt young and alive
and the hair stood up on the back of my neck
we were rising from the grave, yeah yeah.

insurance fraud #2

------------------
bag full of oily rags, fifty cent lighter
dreams of retirement in Cancun burning ever brighter
there's a lot of ways to make money in this world
but i can't recommend insurance fraud.
burned out shell of a Volkswagen,
blood stains on the driveway,
torn up Mercedes, by the side of the highway
big plans, big plans
let me tell you something sister,
you will never get away with it.
you were sitting in the recliner with the TV on,
when you said something evil and then you were gone,
explosives in the water main,
a blown fuse
college graduation photograph
splashed all over the six o'clock news
i won't be cashing in your policy,
'til i find out what it is you're trying to do to me.

alphonse mambo

--------------
i could almost hear the rhythm section
kick in as the sun began to blaze.
i saw you walk across the plaza,
figured I'd just play it like it lays.
yeah yeah yeah.
i think i'm gonna be real sick again.
i think it's gonna happen real soon.
and i know i can't afford another night here in this place,
with its sixteenth floor view of the ocean and the dunes
and it's gonna be, just you and me today,
waiting for the other shoe to drop in Tampa Bay.
i can hear the roar of the crowd
in the stadium a couple of blocks away.
it's the kind of thing that used to get me all worked up,
but i don't want to talk about it now, ok, ok? ok.
i just want to get this whole thing over with.
i don't want to deal with it anymore.
i hear the cogs all slipping at the same time,
and then i see you walk in through the door.
and it's gonna be, just you and me today,
waiting for the other shoe to drop in Tampa Bay.

we were patriots

----------------
clear sky over Calcutta --  a warm wind.
Dvorak on the short wave
clear signal coming in
la la la
la la la la la la 
la la la
la la la la la la la
long vowels spill like liquid from your mouth.
i hang on every word you say.
an army of transistor radios on the bookshelf left on all day.
let them play, yeah let 'em all play on and on and on.
let 'em all play longer and louder and long after you're gone
la la
la la la la la la 
la la
la la la la la
clear sky sheltering our fragile little house
listening to the radio all the time
your hand on my forehead as though to check for a fever
yeah big plans in mind.
la la la la
la la la la la 
la la la la
la la la la la la la
la la 
la la la la la la
la la
lyrics file for Hope Isn't a Word - Comes With A Smile Vol 11

 beat the devil 
outtake from we shall all be healed
hauling peanut butter crank through arizona,
gotta keep the glow stick babies fat and happy.
cactus standing taller than goliath,
all the vultures come directly at me.
we stash it in between some bales of lumber,
on flatbeds coming in from colorado.
i don't know what you're doing back in memphis
all winter you've been incommunicado.
take a picture, do it fast.
for the good times,
for the good times that won't last.
hot sun peels the paint down to the primer,
overheating engine spits and whines.
try to keep our minds on what we're doing,
try to keep the wheels between the lines.
the feeling when the cop car flips its lights on
the near electric tension crackling here inside the truck,
the lack of any word from you in memphis
the sounds of someone running out of luck.
take a picture, do it fast.
for the good times,
for the good times that won't last.
 
return to the mountain goats...

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics for cyanide guilt trip
lyrics file for cyanide guilt trip



leaving home

we gathered up our worldly goods
stole off in the dark as quickly as we could
you were quieting the baby down
when we came to the dock on the outskirts of town
and looking back we saw china shrinking to the size of a coin
and then we saw water everywhere
when we climbed on board
they tied our things together with electrical cord
and then we set sail
as we held on tight to the cold iron rail
and I apologize but I don't know what I love more
you next to me there or the receding shore
we stood there in the cold
and the baby was six months old
we were passing him back and forth
when a cold familiar wind came down from the north
and looking back we saw china shrinking to the size of a coin
and then we saw water everywhere
thanks go out to brandon @saomai.org for transcribing this...


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at 
nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for taking the dative 
 
lyrics file for taking the dative 
 
orange ball of peace 
 
they wanted me to be a lawyer. 
they wanted me to work in a machine shop. 
they wanted me to be a designer, 
but I came out on top. 
I'm a fire-man. 
I'm a fire-man. 
stand and watch the smoke. 
see the flames rise to the sky. 
I stand and watch the flames climb higher. 
I feel the smoke get in my eyes. 
I'm a fire-man. 
I'm a fire-man. 
 
standard bitter love song #8 
 
I went down to lloyd center looking for you. 
but a mouth full of anger blocked my view. 
he took your hand there in the skating the rink. 
god will give him blood to drink. 
saw the two of you leaving. 
I didn't want to follow behind. 
but I could see the rest of your evening, 
burning in my mind. 
the sky's black. the moon's pink. 
god will give him blood to drink. 
I looked over the railing. ice was white 
on the northeast side where I saw you and your boyfriend 
on a friday night. 
I went mining for gold. I struck pure, fresh zinc. 
god, god will give him blood to drink. 
hey, hey, hey. 
 
chino love song 1979 
 
and the may sun shone down on california. 
and the strawberries grew fat and full 
and thick and red and as big as your fist 
and the traffic on riverside drive was thin 
but by no means non-existant. 
when I saw you against the soda machine. 
I saw you leaning there. 
and your hand in the basket 
was nimble-fingered, and red finger-nailed 
and it made me remember the sunflower that popped-up outside my window one 
morning in norwalk 
it was bright yellow and it was real inviting 
and I almost forgot that it was an intruder 
and I saw you against the soda machine. 
I saw you leaning there. 
I saw you against the soda machine. 
I saw you leaning there. 
 
wrong! 
 
you know. you know. 
you see what's going on with me. 
but you don't do anything. 
you don't do anything. 
you don't do anything. 
you feel. you feel. 
and you hear. 
the time's near. 
but you don't do anything. 
you don't do anything. 
you don't do anything. 
you don't do anything. 
2, 3, 4. 
 
going to jamaica 
 
I saw the last of the brightly colored birds 
check out of maine for the other world. 
and you ask me how much longer we have to stay here. 
but I'm not at liberty to say. 
and what flowers there were around kingston are blue. 
I ripped them up from the dry soil and draped them over you. 
we saw the last of the bright colored birds coming home. 
I saw you address them through your megaphone. 
and you asked me when we were leaving. 
well, it's any day now. 
and what flowers there were around trenchtown were red. 
I stole them from the hands of children. 
I braided them around your head. 
 
alpha gelida 
 
popcorn was snapping in the hot oil on the kitchen stove 
and the sky through the kitchen window was cold and poised and threatening. 
heard your voice come lilting through the wall. 
I heard your voice come sailing from the other room. 
let the young lions come. 
let me break their jaws. 
let the young lions come out. 
let me break their jaws with my bare fingers. 
coffee was dripping through the paper filter cone. 
the hip scent of it nearly knocked me out. 
I heard your voice come lilting through the back of the refrigerator. 
I heard your voice come breaking through the wall. 
let the young lions come out. 
let me talk them out of it. 
let the young lions come. 
let me break their jaws with my bare fingers. 
lyrics file for dog so large i cannot see past it


snow song

what cars there are
go by like snails
and ice crystals shine
on the staircase's handrails
the quiet air
is worth some discussion
as the windows crack
and the cold is crushing.
they've shut down the roads to the coast.
there's white streets as far as the eye can see
and I'd just as soon
make you disappear as look at you
but I draw you close to me.
how do you feel about that?
how do you feel about that?

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for esopus #5

porcile
when I wake up I crawl on all fours to the kitchen.
and I admire myself in the dish of water on the floor.
these summer mornings, they can't last forever, you know.
there's gonna come a day, come a day, when no one here can stand it anymore.
the stench and the overwhelming noise.
pull the truck up to the front. drive 'em in boys. drive 'em in boys. drive 'em in.
so when I hear them coming I try to stand up but I fall down.
I fall down and I smash my nose against the counter as I go.
blood splashes on the tiles.
and I wanna clean it up but there isn't time to clean it up is there?
things are bad for us right now.  
things are gonna be bad for awhile.
yeah the stench and the overwhelming noise.
pull the truck up to the door. drive 'em in boys. drive 'em in boys. drive 'em in.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for extra stuff...

  birthday song: this time has gone 
the sun came out this morning I was wide awake
and I made way down to the kitchen and i cut myself a piece of my birthday cake.
raspberry filling in the middle.
and i thought about you a little.
and there was a time when you wanted me so bad it was eating you up inside.
but this time has gone away.
i poured myself a tall glass of milk it was deep and cold.
and i checked my driver's license i was 28 years old.
and there was a time when you wanted me so bad it was eating you up inside.
this time has gone away.
   going to palestine
that woman set herself on fire
they said it on the radio
they said she lit off the skies of palestine
i could not stand to hear them say so
i saw the stars come out
i saw the oranges on the trees
later on they played some carribean song
man they sure know how to pick 'em
the rich voice burning like a fuse
the syncopated rhythms
i saw the stars come out
i saw the oranges cracking open
i saw you standing there
orange blossom in your hair
going to palestine
going to palestine
 tulsa imperative 
 performed by Diskothi-Q on the Wandering Jew
your momma's failed wheat field 
is a good place to lie down together. 
three weeks deep into the guts of summer, 
we sweat like hogs, and i felt light as a feather.
i saw a disk-like object
reflected in your eye. 
and the noise grew louder 
as we looked up to the sky.
 
and the sleek silver body, 
headlights along the side. 
and the sleek silver body, 
headlights all underneath.
 
i remember the warm air, 
blowing in our faces. 
i remember the heat 
running through me.
 
there was no one worth telling. 
there was nothing we could do. 
and i was real quiet as i took the keys from the kitchen table. 
i was looking right at you!
 
and your hand brushed against mine 
yeah, and it shook me inside. 
all along the night sky 
i watched our futures collide.
 
and the car's new headlights 
cut through the darkness. 
as the oil dripped silently 
to the pavement underneath.
 
i can remember the warm air 
burning our faces. 
i remember the heat 
running through me.
jonathan maier is a great guy for sending me this
 calcutta  
Wild donkeys kicking, braying in the meadow
made you want to kick and bray yourself at least you said so
you were wild eyed, your lips were flecked with foam
till warm calcutta called you home
twin rivers flowing brought a flush into your cheeks
at the spot where the trickling stream's rivers meet
the wind from off the snowcapped mountains cooled you down
till warm calcutta brought you back around
i could hear the prophets yelling in the streets
now your eyes were pure poison, but your skin was sweet
 thanks to dylan evans for the song prior to this line
 cutter  
i'd had you out of my mind for a year or better
when the mailman handed me your letter
and i recognize the handwriting even now
but i know i'm gonna open it anyhow
and noone's been buying from my roadside stand, and i 
held your letter like a cross to my chest
i'm gonna wrap up my troubles
i'm gonna wrap up my troubles
i'm gonna wrap up my troubles
in you.
i walked out into the kitchen
where the light came through the 4-paneled window
clean and bright and it's taken me two years to realize
how much i like the way that you dot your I's
well, i was born in indiana thirty years ago
and i got a mean, mean hunger down below
i'm gonna wrap up my troubles
i'm gonna wrap up my troubles
i'm gonna wrap up all my troubles
in you.
 i've got the sex
originally the first track on sweden...
crushing strawberries one by one
watching the juice drip down
two and a half months ahead of schedule
the leaves on the trees are turning brown
we got ready for winter, as the sun rose up in the sky
there was something almost soothing in the hard to define
note of terror in your eye
watching the strawberries lose their shape 
as the wind blew threw the elm tree
the wind was far too cold for the middle of april
and you reached out your hand to me
it was good to feel your hand in mine
it was good to know you felt the pull too
i scooped up a palmfull of strawberry pulp
and smeared it all over you
the wild strawberries drove me on, as i lapped them up off of your skin
and i could feel your basal body temperature rise as the cold came in
hey hey hey hey...
 shower  
the blackest storm i ever saw
was coming in from omaha
and the latest news from tokyo was a lot of ugly numbers
i was checkin' pay phones for forgotten coins
as the clouds came over west des moines
got into the house
got the curtains drawn
got into the the shower with all my clothes on
hey! hey! let the water come down!
hey! hey! let the water come down!
by noon it was clear that winter'd come
and i just the the water run
and i got sop suds in my eyes
and it stung like iodine
the phone started ringing like a fire alarm
and the voice on the machine was brutally calm
new numbers coming down the wire
got into the shower with my eyes on fire
hey! hey! let it fall on me, 
let it all come down relentlessly!
you swore that you would stick around 
when days like this started coming down!
break out the crystal!
get out the good champagne!
we're going down.... in flames.
 the car song 
the highway's open and the sun is full
and the hot old upholstry heats up like wasted wool
the hills roll past us, then they rear up again
take a deep breath now, and count to ten
i reach across the the stick shift and i pull you in
the highway's open and it's hot in here, 
it's hot in here.
your skin sends all the sunlight back to hell
and the ?style in the coming darkness? and i guess it's just as well
but there's noone left. 
there's noone left at all.
and then the hils behind your eyes 
start burning like a solid wall
i'm thinking maize
bitter and red and clear
the highway's open and it's hot in here, 
it's hot in here.
 the doll song 
i've got seven little dolls
in a bag
and i tell the dolls my troubles
and the dolls say "nag! nag! nag! nag!
is that all you ever do?
is that all you're capable of?"
and i say to the little dolls
you have no compassion 
baby, i'm talking to inanimate objects over you
i'm talking to inanimate objects over you
i started reading the bible
I corinthians 13
where paul talks all about love
but i don't know what he means
because he says that love is kind
that hasn't been my experience
so i set the bible on the kitchen table
and yelled at it until i was unable yeah
i'm talking to inanimate objects over you
i'm talking to inanimate objects over you
i'm talking to inanimate objects over you
i'm talking to inanimate objects over you
 new math 
if you ever get money, print books
if you ever get money, print books
if nobody reads them, that's ok
if nobody hears what you have to say, that's ok
 
if you sell a few books, buy land
if you sell a few books, buy land
if no one come to visit you that's all right
if no one comes to visit you and you get lonely at night, that's all right
 
when you've built up your small house, settle in
when you've built up your strong home, settle in
take down the books that you once put away
wait for the memories to bloom, in your cold room.
(thanks to chris calvert for the above)
 that hippolytine feeling 
we sat together on the porch,
as the sunset bled.
and you playfully levelled your semi-automatic handgun right at my head.
and then god, in another stroke of his genius,
he opened up the floodgates.
and the bulls came out.
and the bulls came out.
we heard the heavy hooves beating on the earth
as the moment came near.
i felt the chamber of your pistol kissing my jaw.
i felt your red lips brushing my ear.
and then god, convincing if not transparent in his motives,
he opened up the floodgates.
but the rivers were dry, 'cause it was late august.
and the bulls came out.
and the bulls came out.
 oslo 1888 
the snow built up around the smokehouse.
the sun shone on the snow.
and the sun's rays were blistering against my eyes.
the long night was well on its way
so i made good use of what was left of the daylight
walking out toward the main street
and coming back home again.
sleeping, i sang a short song about you.
and i knew every word of that song was true.
well, almost every word.
ice froze the green stems of the daffodils
ice formed carrots on my window sill.
i was blistering, blazing away.
and it had always been my tendency to let things slide,
but i went to the window with my eyes open wide.
and you were taking on perspective,
coming to ward the door.
you want some more?
i've got some more for you.
i've got just what you're looking for.
 cathedral song 
by tanita tikaram
i saw you from the cathedral.
you were watching me.
and i saw from the cathedral
what i could be.
so take my time,
and take my lies.
and i watch you with a basic instinct.
it's the same for you.
you stand here, with your hand 
it's all laced and
what would you make me do?
so take my time,
yeah and take my lies.
take my time.
serious for the winter time
to wrench my soul
whole cotton, whole cotton ears
but i know there must be,
i know there must be,
i know there must be a place to go.
you saw me in the cathedral.
well i'm an ancient heart.
but you saw me in the cathedral.
well here we are just falling apart.
you catch me.
i am tired.
i want all that you are.
and i saw you from the cathedral.
you were leaving me.
yeah i saw from the cathedral.
you couldn't see the forest for the trees.
so take my time,
and take my lies.
take my time.
take my time.
take my time.
take my time.
take my time.
take my time.
 going to spirit lake 
why did you say what you said when the hummingbird vanished from sight?
a sudden, swelling heat in the dark october night.
you laughed and your eyes were alive,
and i knew that the moment had finally arrived.
and i reached out and held for your hand and held on tight.
you said the right thing.
you fixed everything
as the stars formed a canopy over spirit lake.
you said what you said.
the stars grew softer overhead.
i was on fire.
i was on fire for you.
 one fine day 
i think this is a chiffons song
one fine day you'll look at me,
and you will know our love was meant to be.
yeah one fine day you're gonna want me for your own.
those arms i've yearned for will open wide,
and you'll be proud to have me right by your side.
yeah one fine day you're gonna want me for your own.
and though i know the kind of girl
who only wants to run around,
i'll keep waiting and someday darling,
you'll come around when you want to settle down.
yeah one fine day we'll meet onece more,
and you're gonna want the love you threw away before.
yeah one fine day you're gonna want me for your own.
yeah!
 15-2 
those may be the most beautiful shades of red i've ever seen.
those may be the most beautiful shades of red i've ever seen.
but don't be fooled.
if the sun goes down us here tonight,
it's not gonna be alright anymore.
none of this has anything really to do with us, that's my belief.
as the desert sky throws the glowing neon into bold relief.
your mouth is open and your thighs (eyes?) are wide.
hold on because it's dark outside now.
the smell of roses comes thickly through the open window now.
the smell of roses comes thickly through the open window now.
as the darkness closes in, our bodies draw the roses in.
and those may be the most beautiful shades of red i've ever seen.
 sure do love you baby, but i can't do 60 no more 
they moved down here and you came down too
where the surf's always wild and the skies are blue.
got my blood pressure measured down in pajo key.
one sixty-five over one twenty-three.
and the lights are low over pompano beach tonight.
and one light is flickering out for the last time.
coconuts growing in the coconut tree,
surf and turf and sand and sea.
down here in the wreckage, just us three,
him and you.
you and me.
and the lights are low over pompano beach tonight.
and one light is flickering out,
out for the last time.
 somebody else's parking lot in sebastopol
Originally titled somebody else's parking lot in santa cruz
outside the opera house in sydney,
i saw my life come crashing to its end.
i cried out to the scale-tipper
on whom all living things depend.
strings of giuseppe verdi suffused the evening air.
i wished, i wished, i wished that god would kill me,
instead of leaving me alone to see you standing there
before me. that sad look on your face.
you took me to so many places i never thought i'd go.
this is the worst place.
yeah we did our manners proud
on the night we said goodbye.
no big scene out there on the sidewalk,
as we pinpointed the place where all good things go to die.
i know you hate it when i get my headaches.
well, i've got a real prize tonight.
listening to katia ricciarelli,
it's not going to be alright.
and i'd like to think that this will pass, this will pass.
i know it's not the case.
of all the highs and lows and middle-ends you brought me to,
this is the worst place.
 going to kirby sigston 
we boarded up the windows.
and we sealed the door shut.
and we let the special chicken build a nest right by the window.
your face was glowing.
the heat was strong.
we ate cold black eggs all day long
in the winter when the wind kicked up.
i saw your body moving through the incandescent light.
you were dancing by yourself there.
your sweater hugged your shoulders and it was alright.
we plucked sugar crystals from the cold english air.
i had a present for ya hidden down there
in the winter when the wind kicked up.
 there is power in a union 
 originally: lyrics: billy brag music: traditional
there is a power in a factory.
there is power in the land.
there is power in the hand of the worker.
but it all amounts to nothing if together we don't stand.
yeah, there is power in a union.
the union forever!
defending our rights!
down with the blackleg!
all workers unite!
with our brothers and our sisters from many far-off lands,
yeah, there is power in a union!
now i long for the morning when they realize
brutality and unjust laws cannot defeat us.
but who'll defend the wokrers who cannot organize,
when the bosses send their lackeys out to cheat us?
yeah, money speaks for money!
the devil for his own!
who stands to speak for the skin and the bone?
what a comfort to the widow, a light to the child,
yeah, there is power in a union!
 poltergeist 
i can't stand it when you tell our infant son
that he was born beneath a bad sign.
and i can't stand it when smiles up at you
just because you're his mother.
and i can't stand the bitter thing that i've become
beneath the four walls that hold up our ceiling.
and i wonder when the house gets real quiet
who between us will be the first one to give into the feeling.
and i know you don't want me to hurt you tonight.
and i, i don't want you to hurt me the way you do.
i can't stand it when you put the boy to bed and ya
sing him those songs i used to sing to you.
yeah i can't stand to hear you sing those songs
when you know you don't mean them.
and i can't stand the way my body still remembers 
how much we used to mean to one another way back when.
and i can't stand going back to seek the shelter of your arms.
and then i can't stand it again.
and i know you don't want me to hurt you tonight.
and i, i don't want you to hurt me the way you do.
 song for roger maris 
when the power of god shows up in your swing,
and the people start to notice and you can't do anything about it
and they all come out to see you. 
they start to crowd around.
let me tell ya brother, you can feel it coming down.
and i got an angel watching over me,
a monkey on my back,
the devil at my heels,
reporters breathing down my neck.
yeah my daddy always to me to finish what ya start.
my wife's about to leave me and it's going to break my heart.
and i no longer have my youth.
i no longer have my looks.
i got a god damned one-way ticket to the god damned history books.
and i got an angel watching over me,
a monkey on my back,
the devil at my heels,
reporters breathing down my neck.
hey, hey.
 02-75 
i got your letter.
and i read what it said.
and i blushed with recognition at every word you said.
and you are my best friend.
and i have always known you.
i came to your house.
and i looked around.
and i felt the real rain falling down.
and you are my best friend.
and i have always known you.
pirates (so long lonely avenue)
this song by ricky lee jones
come on - joey get out of school
we got places to go
a '67 lincoln you got a radio that hurts
and the girls like to touch it
just to find out if it works
It wasn't me
don't look at me
joey live on the edge of the corner
of living on the run
i like to ride in the middle
i'm just tryin to have some fun
until the pirates come
until the pirates come to take me
and i won't need a pilot
got a pirate who might sail
somewhere far away i heard
you answer me
so i'm holding on
to your rainbow sleeves
well, goodbye boys,
oh my buddy boys,
oh my sad-eyed sinatras
it's a cold globe around the sea
you can keep the coat that I bought ya
and i know you'll get the chance to make it
and nothin's gonna stop you
you just reach right out and take it
and you'll say - so long, lonely avenue
yeah you'll say so long lonely avenue
my favorite things
champagne bubbled up through the nick of the bottle,
and sweet silence came out through the radio.
it was john coltrane.
god damn it, i love john coltrane!
you danced across the living room floor, 
and you kissed me once and then you kissed me some more.
you had your arms wrapped around my neck and it felt real fine,
and then your ankle knocked up against mine.
and resonating in my bones
was the precise crisp drumming of mr. elvin jones.
god damn it, i love john coltrane!
agemo's hoops
you were breathing against my throat
covering your laugh up with your long black overcoat
all circles warming up.
and you told me what you were going to do.
and i promised to do the same thing too.
and the air, the air in new england was pure
poison.
the car was parked out back among the trees.
your voice was getting higher by slow degrees.
you were giving me directions.
and you told me where i came from.
well, god bless us everyone.
and the air, the air in new england was pure
poison.
poison.
poison.
poison.
the moon song
the moon shining, 
three hours into the best part of the day and
i want to tell you that you're so pretty and 
the words come out wrong and the rage gets in the way..
dead quiet you looked at me like you were looking into space.
yeah, in space noone could hear you say good bye.
but down here i shouldn't have to read it on your face.
that's not normal.
that's not right.
that's not very nice.
no, it isn't.
the moon shining down on your body.
you look so nice.
and i want to tell you, but you don't want to hear it,
and i know. you don't have to tell me twice.
but, once would be civil. the moon shining.
i got it in my brain, and i had so much to say but there was dead quiet.
you were silent. three hours -- into the best part of the day.
and that's not normal.
that's not right.
that's not very nice.
no, it isn't.
and that's not normal.
that's not right.
that's not very nice.
no, it isn't.
trash
this is a suede song
maybe, maybe it's the clothes we wear,
our tasteless bracelets and the dye in our hair,
maybe it's our kookiness.
or maybe, maybe it's our nowhere towns,
our nothing places and our cellophane sounds,
maybe it's our looseness.
but we're trash, you and me.
we're the litter on the breeze.
we're the people on the streets.
we're trash, me and you.
it's in everything we do.
it's in everything we do.
maybe, maybe it's the things we say,
the places we go and the music we play,
maybe it's our cheapness.
or maybe, maybe it's the times we've had,
the lazy days and the crazes and the fads,
maybe it's our sweetness.
but we're trash, you and me.
we're the litter on the breeze.
we're the people on the street.
we're trash, me and you.
it's in everything we do.
it's in everything we do.
going to bridlington
stopped by for the coffee and cake that you promised.
saw your porch light on.
saw your wire-haired terrier lazing on the lawn.
came right in through the front door.
went right down the main hall.
turned right into the kitchen.
there you were alright.
the moon was rising over bridlington.
and you had blood all over your hands.
someone was singing in the yard next door.
and you had blood all over your hands.
sat down on the kitchen floor.
looked up at you.
saw you smoothing down your skirt around your thighs.
wondered what good that was supposed to do.
and i saw you pull your hair back.
saw you messing with your earrings.
saw you trying to smile.
hey! you don't have to smile for me.
the moon was rising over bridlington.
and you had blood all over your hands.
something was cracking in the rafters of our house. 
and you had blood all over your hands.
the moon was rising over bridlington.
the moon was rising over bridlington.
the moon was rising.
wishing the house would crash
i was standing outside with my hands in the air.
and the scent of gardenias was everywhere.
let the house come down on me.
let the house come down on me.
i made my invocation with my eyes on fire.
you were there at the window.
you are a god damned liar.
let the house come down on me.
let the house come down on you.
song from the shoreline
through the bodies of a hundred people, i saw you.
i saw you coming through the crush.
saw you pushing through.
and in the bodies of a hundred people moving around,
i shut my ears off to the world, 
i couldn't hear a sound.
in the bodies of a hundred people, i saw you.
i saw you coming through the crush.
i saw you pushing through.
brave
this is a chris knox song
color me red.
color me gold.
wrap me in anger.
[VPRO session is cut]
casetino's nursery
the mailman brought the mail by, but the devil sent the rain.
the mailman brought the mail by, but the devil sent the rain.
the rain tore through the streets.
tore down los flores canyon again.
if the leak was in the attic, then we'd all be doomed for sure.
if the leak was in the attic, then we'd all be doomed for sure.
there's a leak up in the attic.
let's get out of here.
gotta keep moving.
gotta keep moving.
blues falling down like hail.
gotta keep moving.
blues falling down like hail.
the sunlight keeps ta worryin' me.
there's a hellhound on my trail.
cut your hair
this is a pavement song
JD:
darlin' don't'cha go and cut your hair.
do you think it's going to make him change?
RW:
i'm just a girl with a new haircut.
JD:
and that's a pretty nice haircut.
charge it like a puzzle.
hitmen wearin' muzzles.
hesitate to die.
look around, around
the second drummer drowned.
his telephone is found.
sing!
oo oo oo oo oo oo
oo oo oo oo oo oo
oo oo oo oo oo oo oo oo
again!
oo oo oo oo oo oo
oo oo oo oo oo oo
oo oo oo oo oo oo oo oo
music seems crazy
bands start up each and everyday
i saw another one just the other day
a special new fan
i don't remember lyin'
i don't remember line
can't remember word
i don't care
i care
i really don't care
did you see the drummer's hair?
hey.
oo oo oo oo oo oo
oo oo oo oo oo oo
oo oo oo oo oo oo oo oo
...3 4
oo oo oo oo oo oo
oo oo oo oo oo oo
oo oo oo oo oo oo oo oo
advertising:looks and chops a must
no big hair!
march right down to the practice room
career
career
career
career
korea
korea
korea
korea
what!
letter from a motel
the beams we used to build our house are breaking at last.
the building will not hold together very much longer.
my arms are young, and they can do the work if called upon to do so.
but the house itself has weakened and it's tilting on its axis.
in the picture that you sent, i could see the windows getting soft.
and i could see the heat had gotten straight out of hand.
and i knew that none of this is what you'd been meaning to send along.
i did not mean to say what i'm saying now if we're gonna talk about what intentions were.
but the house itself is weak, very weak,
though you and our three daughters believe in what you want to believe.
from where i stand stability is everything.
in the room i'm standing in stability is everything.
and in this world, in this world stability is everything.
from where i'm standing right now stability is everything.
you're in maya
he hit me right in the face.
i drove the falcon uptown.
hung out in the library parking lot.
the swelling'll never go down.
tied a hiram walker in the lining of my father's old corduroy coat.
big, big plans hatching in my brain and a
big ugly lump in my throat.
i drove up to harvey mudd and i played pinball
'till i didn't want to kill anyone.
polished off all my cheap whiskey and stepped out into the california sun.
singing bainne na mo is a gamna,
and the juice of the barley for me.
singing bainne na mo is a gamna,
and the juice of the barley for me.
my thirst carried me up the coast,
where it only got sharper god damn it.
in a small room that got even smaller a block away from the wilamette.
there was nowhere i needed to go.
and nowhere i wanted to be.
from my window looked out upon nothing.
and nothing looked right back at me.
i had a couple of things on my mind.
a couple of problems to think through.
and i drank 'till i couldn't see straight anymore --
until there was nothing to drink to.
singing bainne na mo is a gamna,
and the juice of the barley for me.
singing bainne na mo is a gamna,
and the juice of the barley for me.
hey!
i think i'll just stay here and drink
this is a hank williams song
i could be holding you tonight.
i could quit doing wrong and strt doing right.
you don't care about what i think.
i think i'll just stay here and drink.
you're hurtin' me now, don't square the deal.
at least you'll know the way i feel.
i'll take all the money in the bank.
i think i'll just stay here and drink.
listen close and you will hear
that old juke box playing in my ear.
ain't no woman gonna change the way i think.
i think i'll just stay here and drink.
hurtin' ya now won't mean a thing.
since love ain't here it don't feel the pain.
my mind ain't nothing but a total blank.
i think i'll just stay here and drink.
i think i'll just stay here and drink.
i think i'll just stay here and drink.
i think i'll just stay here and drink.
i think i'll just stay here and drink.
 
the new potatoes
the rain came and washed the new potatoes away.
we saw them floating across the backyard.
there they go.
we'll never see them again, ya know.
so good bye to the new potatoes.
good bye, and god-speed.
there they go.
we will never see them again you know.
so good bye to the new potatoes.
good bye.
good bye.
the mad clarinet
this is a graeme jeffries song
i don't mean to scare you.
you're leaving soon.
but the wallpaper's melting, thoughts turning blue.
the lightbulb is giving out shots in the dark
and the mad clarinets run away with your heart.
remember that old tune.
the one that you cried to when you fell.
yeah it felt like you'd lost your mind.
you were not twenty-one when he first saw you.
how his melody cheered you, pitch rang so true.
placed your lips to the mouthpiece, struck out a part,
now the mad clarinets run away with your heart.
do you remember that old tune?
the one that you cried to when you fell.
it felt like you'd lost your mind.
when you left that sucker on a moonlit night.
you didn't bother looking left or you wouldn't look right.
you nearly got run over by a ten ton truck.
got your pride you tried to make out like you...
when he received you, your hope simply fell through.
so you cried.
yeah it felt like you'd lost your mind.
doctor wu
this is a steely dan song
katie lied, i was halfway crucified.
i was on the other side of no tomorrow.
you walked in, and my life began again.
just when i'd spent the last piaster i could borrow.
all night long we would sing that stupid song.
and every word we sang i knew was true.
are you with me mr doctor wu?
are you really just a shadow of the man that i once knew?
are you crazy?
are you high?
or just an ordinary guy?
have you done all you can do?
are you with me doctor?
are you with me doctor?
don't seem right, i've been strung out here all night.
i was waiting for the taste you said you'd bring to me.
biscane bay, where the cuban gentleman sleep all day.
i went searching for the song you used to sing to me.
and katie lies.
you can see it in her eyes.
so imagine my surprise when i saw you.
are you with me mr doctor wu?
are you really just a shadow of the man that i once knew?
she is lovely.
yes, she's sly.
and you're an ordinary guy.
has she finally got to you?
are you with me doctor?
can you hurry?
pennsylvania dutch treat
brought in the old furnishings from mussel shoals.
up here they burn a lot of brown coal.
and the cars all run on diesel fuel.
the wind comes in from hills to the east,
blowing thirty miles an hour at least.
and the clear blue horizon is smooth and cool.
and the house is like a relic of days gone by.
and it's kinda hard to take, but i try.
i've got a deep need to communicate.
i want so badly to set things straight.
but i can't seem to concentrate deep in the heart of the quaker state.
i had the bed sent in from the west coast.
watched the moving men carry in the old ghosts.
and the purple-ink sky swelled up like a pregnant woman.
saw the lights go up in town.
on the back porch it began to cool down.
but in here, in here, in here it was hotter than an oven.
and the way my blood began to froth and foam,
made it feel just like home.
i've got a deep need to communicate.
i want so badly to set things straight.
but i something tells me it's way too late deep in the heart of the quaker state.
tampa
my brother and me found out where you keep your ugly secrets hid.
we dug up the missing one this morning.
i know what you did what you did.
yeah, we found him naked in the snow.
down where the wild krokus grow.
and i don't wanna do this anymore.
i ain't wanna fight your dirty little war.
my brother said not to waste another thin dime because
he ain't comin' out next time, and you can
soak in a bathtub full of gasoline, but you will
never get your hands clean.
yeah the building was raging fire was glowing within
you ran out to save your own skin, and
well, i probably shouldn't blame you.
yeah, i probably shouldn't blame you.
but by god, i do,
and i found the photographs in the top dresser drawer
but i ain't gonna fight your dirty little war
anymore.
going to dade county
when the rainbows disappeared from the skies of northern florida
because the rain had gone away,
and i looked out on the front lawn and i saw you there.
it was 6:31 AM on a saturday.
and you turned into a housecat, 
and you all think i'm making this part up,
but you're wrong, wrong, you're wrong.
and the wind came through the window.
and it my licked at my face.
and i heard the sound of about a thousand housecats
squalling up from all over the place
and you all think i'm crazy
or making up some kind of cute story
or telling little jokes to amuse myself with
but you are wrong.
i am going to dade county right now.
terror song
this is a furniture hushcle song
dad has a knife.
he's stabbing his wife.
mom has a saw.
she's sawing off her own jaw.
mom without jaw.
and dad without wife.
they're making awful plans, you'll get cancer in your hands.
terror song.
dad has a knife.
he's stabbing his wife.
mom has a saw.
she's sawing off her own jaw.
mom without jaw.
and dad without wife.
they're making awful plans, you'll get cancer in your hands.
terror song.
edvard munch
radical colors on the eastern sky,
the blinding symmetry,
the little white lie,
your small hand waving in the cold air,
the ridges of the mountain frozen on the skyline there.
when the sun came out over norway today,
i saw you going away.
there was nothing good in your going.
there was nothing good in your going.
i cut the flowers that grew near the door
and i arranged them in the center of the floor.
the room was so empty.
there were pale shadows inside.
when the sun came out over norway today,
i saw you going away.
there was nothing good in your going.
there was nothing good in your going.
the irony engine
this is a franklin bruno song
you kept a death grip on the armrest.
you slept while i swerved through bumps and dips.
you lept at the chance to act alarmist.
you swept past my face like an eclipse.
you act like i'm your chum and i can treat you like my little sister.
but if you cover the sun with your thumb you can't expect to get a fever blister.
and if the air is filled with a sickening hum,
don't be upset or overcome.
don't worry. 
it's just the irony engine working.
you rose like a crane to the occasion.
you froze at the very implication.
you chose to divert the whole invasion.
by winking and shrugging and smiling and giving me an awkward seatbelt hug
before you vanished in the chilly autumn.
i could feel the motor chug.
something tearing loose and striking bottom.
and if you still can't see how a three point plug
could superheat on the lunar tug.
don't worry.
it's just the irony engine working.
yeah don't worry.
it's just the irony engine working.
counting song for bitter children
1, 2 i don't love you.
3, 4 anymore.
1, 3 stay away from me
5, 7 good children get nothing.
na na na nana na nana
na na na nana na na na
na na na nana na nana na nana nana na
1, 2, 2 1/2 stick around here, don't make me laugh.
2 1/2, 3, 4.5 the new day's dawning and my hour's arrived.
1, 2 i got things to do.
1, 3 i got people to see. i got people that want to see me.
na na na nana na nana
na na na nana na na na
na na na nana na nana na nana nana na
na na na nana na nana
na na na nana na na na
na na na nana na nana na nana nana na
Real Good Girlfriend
I woke up this morning, 
my new girlfriend beside me.
I don't have to lie about her.
I don't need some dumb story to hide me.
she turned 20 last April, she's as tall as I am,
she came to this country all the way from Siam.
I may not be the greatest guy in this town,
people may have good cause to put me down,
but I've got a real good girlfriend now.
we stood on Chicago Avenue, 
hey look--here comes the bus.
slipped on a solid sheet of ice, (???)
watched the number 66 fly right past us.
I may not be the greatest guy in this town,
people may have good cause to put me down,
but I've got a real good girlfriend now.
If England were what England seems, then we would only have our dreams.
I told you I was never going back,
I was trying to breathe evenly, 
when the phone stopped ringing for the first time in a long time,
and you flashed that smile at me.
and then you opened up the window, 
I felt the air roll in,
in the place where the world stops forever,
in the place where your body begins.
you  were staring out at the street below. 
there was nobody there. 
they built fire down there in the alley.
I saw the fires rising everywhere.
and then you opened up the window, 
the north wind began to blow.
we were just a few short hours from something really special
and I heard you singing soft and low.
hey!
no surprises
this is a radiohead song
a heart that's full up like a landfill,
a job that slowly kills you,
bruises that won't heal.
i'll take a quiet life,
a handshake,
some carbon monoxide,
no alarms and no surprises.
no alarms and no surprises.
no alarms and no surprises.
you look so tired and happy,
bring down the government,
they don't,
they don't speak for us.
such a pretty house and such a pretty garden,
no alarms and no surprises.
no alarms and no surprises.
no alarms and no surprises. 
warm lonely planet
this is an outtake from "All Hail West Texas"
let the stars come out, and the moon shine bright
we're sleeping on the porch tonight
wind blew all the power lines down
watch where you step if you go walking around
this may be the night
our bodies fill with light
and we may hover above
the surface of
our warm, lonely planet
let cooling rains come, let them fall
let the grass grow strong and tall
let the dandelions breed
give me what you know I need
this may be the night
our bodies fill with light
and we may hover above
the surface of
our warm, lonely planet
song for god
this is an outtake from "All Hail West Texas"
neighbor kids running across the front yard this evening
sun going down, wind gathering strength
the state i live in is the largest of its kind
it takes two days or better to drive across its length
if you try to come and find me, i will know you're coming
there's an old fallout shelter i can hide in
i won't even be able to hear their hoofbeats
when the horsemen ride in
another mild winter -- time seems to stand still
the sky swallows up the city like a tent
tiny breezes razor patterns in the dust
no way of saying what they're supposed to represent
i have come to where i've come to now
always abiding in you
if you try to find me now I'll be invisible to everything
when the horsemen come riding on through
A Note from Mr. Darnielle:
"Song For God" was cut largely because while the lyric clearly 
reads "it takes two days or better to drive across its length," 
the singer of the recording in question has inexplicably chosen 
to modify that to read "it takes two days or better to walk 
across its length." I challenge anyone foolhardy enough to 
try it to see whether Texas can in fact be walked in two days. I 
would hazard to guess that it can't be done.
 waco 
where the dry dust turns the sunset pale.
where all summer long we saw ?? and faced her.
where we pulled water from a well by hand.
half a world away from the old promised land.
where you stand we've been given
a new covenant -- a real sharp one.
and we spend all our days and nights
gaining new appreciation of its finer points.
and waiting for the dead to rise up from their graves.
waiting for jesus to come along and save us. and we are
biding our time.
biding our time.
biding our time as best we know how.
where the texas doughboys used to play
before the wind blew everything away.
where we came to get away from our friends.
where we'd tell each other jokes waiting for the world to end.
we know our jokes are funny,
but in all the wrong ways and for all the wrong reasons.
and we watch old george romero movies
and relish the short time left.
yeah, waiting for the dead to rise up from their graves.
waiting for jesus to come along and save us. yes, and
biding our time.
biding our time.
biding our time as best we know how.
high school confidential
you look so cool in your summer dress.
you look so cool in your summer dress.
you walk across the high school campus
in the bright sunshine,
you can't imagine my surprise when your gaze meets mine.
and i may be young, but i know
what you're thinking.
                                                                                
you look so cool as you glide into the teacher's lounge.
you look so cool as you glide into the teacher's lounge.
and i may be only seventeen,
but i know what that look means.
and if you think i'm all talk and no action,
try me.
                                                                                
i touch your thin hand as we roll back into town.
in your car i touch your thin hand later on as we roll back into town.
after words you drop me off one block away
and i'm young and strong and healthy,
it's a bright spring day.
and it may be that it's just me, but in the sunlight
you look different.
escape to wild palm city
i see you've come to call you want to tear the palm tree down.
but i mean to tell you me and the palm tree we don't need you around.
we don't need you.
we don't need anyone else.
'cause we can rip our roots up from the cool soft ground
all by ourselves.
                                                                                
and you come toward the two of us with your arms extended lovingly,
but i've got a hammer.
                                                                                
sweat breaks on my temples as i see you come toward me.
and i shouold've known that this was exactly how it was gonna be.
                                                                                
what have i done to deserve this?
what did i ever do?
what have i done to deserve this?
what did i do to you?
                                                                                
and you come toward the two of us with your arms extended lovingly,
but i've got a hammer.
let the dogs come out
outtake from The Hot Garden Stomp
new rivers forming on the surface of the world,
i mean to say that it's raining.
otis redding tried to tell me there'd be days like this,
but i didn't believe him.
yeah otis redding talked about this kind of thing.
when i'm only semi-conscious and i hear the phone ring.
                                                                                
let the dogs come out.
i'm ready now.
let the dogs come out.
i'm ready now.
                                                                                
and i remember where i was the last time that it rained like this.
and i remember where i was the last time it was raining this hard.
well, do you remember where i was?
and i know that you remember where we were last time it rained like this.
                                                                                
let the dogs come out.
i'm ready now.
let the dogs come out.
i'm ready now.
hup!
going to san deigo
long rain, it must be june again.
warm air, and it's so warm down there.
i'm coming soon, open the blinds.
your friends all tell me that you've lost your mind.
i don't believe them.
                                                                                
the seashore, i don't want to see it anymore.
the bus runs smoothly,
the back window's open and the burning air cools me
hold your breath,
your friends all swear you're one step away from death
i don't belive them.
                                                                                
mmm, here it comes.
my head is throbbing and my hands are numb.
it's you.
what was i thinking?
what should i do?
your eyes are open and it's more than i can take
my friends all told me i was making a mistake
i don't believe them.
chilean fire barrel
smell of sulfur, cloven hoof,
birds were gathering on the roof.
faint voices, scratching sounds.
if this keeps up, i may never come down.
by the time i snapped out of it, there was nothing left.
by the time i snapped out of it, there was nothing left.
by the time i snapped out of it, you were long gone.
by the time i snapped out of it, you were long gone.
                                                                                
spinning numbers, shepherd songs,
birds singing all the time -- all wrong.
aunt margaret, cotton-eyed joe,
they swear they're my friends, but i don't think so.
                                                                                
by the time i snapped out of it, there was nothing left.
by the time i snapped out of it, there was nothing left.
by the time i snapped out of it, you were long gone.
by the time i snapped out of it, you were long gone.

dance music

alright i'm on johnson avenue in san luis obispo
and i'm five years old or six maybe.
and indications that there's something wrong with our new house,
trip down the wire twice daily.
i'm in the living room watching the watergate hearings,
while my stepfather yells at my mother
launches a glass across the room,
straight at her head.
and i dash upstairs to take cover,
lean in close to my little record player on the floor,
so this is what the volume knob's for,
i listen to dance music.
dance music.
                                                                                
ok so look i'm seventeen years old,
and you're the last best thing i've got going,
but then the special super sicknesss starts to eat through you,
what am i supposed to do?
no way of knowing.
so i follow you down your twisting alleyways,
find a few cul de sacs of my own.
there's only one place this road ever ends up,
and i don't want to die alone.
let me down,
let me down
let me down gently.
when the police come to get me i'm listening to dance music.
dance music.

hast thou considered the tetrapod

you are sleeping off your demons
when i come home.
spittle bubbling at your lips,
fine white foam.
i am young and i am good.
it's a hot southern california day.
if i wake you up,
there will be hell to pay.
and alone in my room i am the last of a lost civilization
and i vanish into the dark
and rise above my station.
rise above my station.
                                                                                
but i do wake you up and when i do
you blaze down the hall and you scream.
i'm in my room with the headphones on
deep in the dream chamber
and then i'm awake and i'm guarding my face
hoping you don't break my stereo
because it's the one thing that i couldn't live without
so i think about that,
and then i sort of black out.
held under these smothering waves
by your strong and thick-veined hand
but one of these days
i'm gonna wriggle up on my land.

broom people

'36 hudson in the garage,
all sorts of junk in the unattached spare room,
dishes in the kitchen sink,
used straw for the old broom,
friends who don't have a clue,
well meaning teachers,
but down in your arms, in your arms,
i am a wild creature.
                                                                                
floor two foot high with newspapers,
carpet thick with pet hair,
half eaten gallons of ice cream in the freezer,
fresh fuel for the sodium flare,
i write down good reasons to freeze to death
in my spiral-ring notebook
but in the long tresses of your hair,
i am a babbling brook.

magpie

feed the kittens in the kitchen.
set food out for the strays.
try hard to do your best.
the magpie will have his way.
                                                                                
fill your mouth with berries
by the full light of the moon.
work all night if you have to.
the magpie comes at noon.
                                                                                
shore up the crucifixes
above the archways and the doors.
the magpie will come at midday.
and you will go down on all fours.
                                                                                
and when the cherries white(?) with blossoms,
be ready and be brave.
and remember what we had here,
when there was something left to save.
new world emerging blues
some day, some day mt. fuji's gonna blow.
some day, some day mt. fuji's gonna blow.
spray hot ashes on the villagers below.
some day, some day the ocean's gonna rise.
some day, some day the ocean's gonna rise.
and i will emerge from hiding and shrug off my disguise.
some day, some day the earth will be black as tar.
some day the earth will be black as tar.
and are gonna see each other the way we truly are.

the day the aliens came (alternate title: hawaiian feeling)

i will wake up at six a.m. again
and I will find my way to the front door like a soldier 
crawling through the smoking carnage
smoldering bodies at my feet
i'd love to stick around but I've got someone to meet
and I will put my best foot forward
and I'll thank god I made it out of there
on the day when my new friends come
i will present myself in my nice white tuxedo jacket
and I will look out at the day through my dark sunglasses
and take in the scene
the house behind me and the people in it
will all go up like steam in just a minute
there's gonna be a redefining of the borders
and I will receive my orders
on the day when my new friends come
the rooftops and sidewalks
will all melt like plastic
and old friends, old friends, dear friends
i'm gonna look fantastic
there won't be any reason left to cry
because there won't be any people left to cry for
my memory's gonna vaporize itself
and my italian shoes, well, they will be to die for
i believe I can fly
while you look up at me and wave goodbye
on the day when my new friends come
thanks to carl wilson for transcribing this

collapsing stars

an outtake from the sunset tree
when we get out behind the risers of the high school
working bitter calculations with a slide rule
the grim particulars of poisoning the swimming pool
will you look me in the eye, ready to die?
we were becoming what we are:
collapsing stars.
when we chewed up children's tylenol like bubble gum
till our hearts were beating deep and rich as kettle drums
we knew if we waited long enough the change would come
and then the day did come and at last
hold tight, hold fast, catch lightning in a jar:
collapsing stars
told you to load up on provisions
we wouldn't be back for awhile
pack up your troubles in your old kit bag
turn toward the camera and smile, smile, smile
when we ditched the plan to poison all our enemies
tucked our weapons in a clearing and covered them with leaves
we are gonna come rejoicing, bringing in the sheaves one day - 
well, we are on our way
you can look but you won't find another love like ours:
collapsing stars
thanks to carl wilson for transcribing this
standard bitter love song #1
i'm not going to say what i came over to say to you.
but you were thinking along the same lines
and you let the words come ringing through.
i wouldn't've said that to you.
i wouldn't say it if they paid me to.
you got no manners
you got no manners at all
you got no manners
you got no manners
you got no manners at all
you got no manners
i'm going to try real hard,
but i, i can't believe that you're really going to do it
it's like one of those chinese kites flying in the wind
and then some kid with a shotgun sends a bullet through it.
and i, i  came here to say it,
but i've done that before.
but i've never, um, told you that i don't love you anymore.
you got no manners.
you got no manners at all.
you got no manners.
you got no manners.
you got no manners at all.
you got no manners.
you got no manners.
you got no manners at all.
you got no manners.
standard bitter love song #5
come down in the flatland
show me your shoulder
wait now where the black hand touches us 
we'll both grow older
and the sky above us
and the ground beneath us
and the air around us
and the ocean to the right
measure your arm length
i can't live without it
i treasure those thirty inches
i want to talk about it.
and the sky above us
and the ground beneath us
and the air around us
and the ocean to the right
love you in the cold air
your long hair makes me shiver
above you i see the sun
light up every sliver
and the sky above us
and the ground beneath us
and the air around us
and the ocean to the right
and the sky above us
and the ground beneath us
and the air around us
and the ocean to the right
standard bitter love song #6
i don't like what i've turned into
there's a hole in my chest in the spot that you wormed out through
they say it's on the mend,
but it hurts me when i bend, yeah.
and i saw you down at angie's place
that rippling smile on your perfect face
well it really doesn't suit you.
when i see it i want to shoot you, sorry.
and i don't like what you said to me.
i don't like what you said to me.
but i guess i'll have to deal with it
let the bullet hit me and i just reel with it,
isn't that right?
isn't that right?
isn't that right?
isn't that right?
etiquette song
rain washing your memory away.
fires burning somewhere around here.
clouds forming, clouds gathering.
one minute in a long, long year.
you've got one good reason for doing what you're going to do.
i've got one thing holding me back from doing the same thing to you.
in the san gabriels the fire ate away
rabbit rush and the jimson weed.
when the rain came it was like an old friend.
when you came by you had just what i needed.
you've got one hour left before something happens alright?
and the then rain will come down tonight.
pure crystal
the cactus cuttings took root,
the tea you brought me smacked of passion fruit.
in a room where the heat bled in though the wall,
i let breathing in the design of it all
what is there to regret?
your mouth was wet.
and your shoulders rolled under mine.
i saw the glaze come over your eyes.
i felt my blood pumping and the heat rise.
i've seen pretty eyes before, but never like those
and your body open like a new rose
what more is there to say?
the air gave way.
i was melting and sweltering under you.
radical evil song
i wind up the tiny machines.
i watch them go.
i don't what they are exactly.
what do i know?
i know that you are the radical evil
i've been wondering about.
i know that you are the radical evil.
i've been wondering about.
i read the words the clouds spell on the sky.
i watch them burn up.
then i see you turn up in the corner of the room.
i knew you'd be stopping by soon.
'cause you are the radical evil.
i've been wondering about.
i know that you are the radical evil
i've been wondering about.
something blue
you come around here when the lights are down low.
and you hang around for six or seven hours and then you get ready to go.
well, i remember when you used to kiss me without me asking you to.
yeah i remember when you used to.
when i lean toward to you, you turn away.
it's a quarter past one a.m. on a warm saturday.
that's alright, that's alright, i hear you.
don't do anything you don't want to do.
but, i remember when you used to kiss me without me asking you to.
yeah i remember when you used to.
flower song
selling new flowers,
outrageously cheap.
freshly cut daisies,
twenty five cents each.
you loved me when you could keep your losses down
but winter's coming around now.
now, now, now.
the girl at the flower shop
is kind and young.
she made accurate change for me.
i let the change come.
you loved me when it was cheap to do so.
can you feel the cold wind blow now?
now, now now.
i meant every word i said in new delhi
i know when you look at the photographs,
they don't do much for you.
i know you see the fires raging
baby, i see them too
and even though
you got your options all lined up in a row
there is something i want you to know.
i meant every word i said in new delhi.
every word.
every word.
every word.
i don't know where you're going,
and i don't want to know either.
i know you're heading north.
i know you've kept the keys in your pocket
breathe in, i see the moon shining down you
i know that you remember.
i can see it burning though.
in sanskrit, they got a word for it.
savasana.
savasana.
savasana.
savasana.
slimy rich white bastards
you took over alexander hall because you wanted to protest racism.
and you took over alexander all because you thought more of a certain color ought to be hired
you slimy, rich, white bastards
you slimy, rich, white bastards
well your parents sent you out from the east coast
because they were very, very tired of having you proselytize around the house
when you were only sixteen years old
they were willing to spend twenty-one thousand dollars 
a year plus whatever other money you needed for gas
and expensive snacks
and meals out
and weekends in TJ
you slimy, rich, white bastards
you slimy, rich, white bastards
you slimy, rich, white bastards
alpha compunction
you will not call my memory into question.
you will not question my memory.
see there was you and me up on a hilltop by ourselves
and then the red clouds dispersing above me
i should have killed myself
when i found out how beautiful you are.
but everyone makes mistakes sometimes.
as the afternoon sky opened up its mouth
and the air cooled down one or two degrees
i felt the world within me screaming to come out
and then i looked up at you and your hair spilled down over me.
i felt you breathing on me and i heard your voice.
your eyes were twin bonfires and your lips were moist.
i should have killed myself
when i found out how beautiful you are.
but everyone makes mistakes sometimes.
malted milk
two weeks later you asked me what did i do
right after i got the great big brush-off from you.
well i checked my pulse and i caught my breath.
and i, i guess you know what happens next.
i sat down and i drank my malted milk.
i sat down and i drank my malted milk.
you, you say, you say i'm easily appeased.
but you, you don't know the feeling that shoots through me.
with a tall glass of malted milk
cold as ice, smooth as silk.
i sit down and i try real hard to forget 
that you, you and i ever met.
yesterday you came over
and you found me stretched out on the sofa.
and you said you were gonna call a medic
'cause i looked so pathetic.
well i ain't there smiling brightly staring at you.
malted milk in my hand, still as a statue.
i sat down and i drank my malted milk.
i sat down and i drank my malted milk.
i sat down and i drank my malted milk.
i sat down and i drank my malted milk.
going to france
you say it's too cold over there anyway
it's far too cold.
i'm going to france.
and i'm taking you with me.
wild berries, wild sheep
you know you want to see them.
and i'm going to france.
and i'm taking you with me.
we always said one day we were going there.
well, i don't know about you,
but i keep my promises.
and i'm going to france.
and i'm taking you with me.
history of the church (part 1)
in the early days of the christian church
there was a movement among free thinking christians called gnosticism.
now the gnostics believed that the incarnation of christ had been completely illusory
and their reasoning was as follows:
that if god is holy and the body is unholy,
then god would not inhabit a body.
hence people had been seeing things when christ walked the earth.
now about this this time lived a man named polycarp.
polychar had received his teaching at the hands of john the apostle.
it was polycarp's earnest belief that the gnostics were heretics
and he visited rome to tell them so.
he met up with a guy named marcion
extremely influential among the gnostics.
and marcion, realizing polycarp's status at having studied under john the apostle
demanded that he be recognized.
polycarp was about sixty years old and he extended an aging arm
and pointed toward marcion and said i recognize
i recognize
i recognize
the first born son of satan!
that was polycarp.
kittens in mittens
the building shook with the sound of wild kittens,
and i grabbed my scarf and i pulled on my mittens,
took my coat and i went down
to the useless lot on the outskirts of town.
the dogs were howling.
the wind was blowing.
the birds were singing.
and i saw you.
your eyes as bright as burning coals,
but ask not for whom the bell tolls.
'cause it tolls for those who ask that question.
and it tolls for those who answer that question.
dogs were howling.
the birds were singing.
the wind was blowing.
and i saw you.
in the cane fields
i tasted the wet sugar on your lips
it brought me alive
songs blended unsurely
one another on the arms of the air,
we looked around the living room.
there was cool jazz on the stereo,
the sound was clean and clear.
i was ready to absorb you into myself,
my jaw was hanging open.
i got so hungry and i felt so drunk
i felt your muscles tighten and relax
and tighten and relax.
and tighten and relax.
and tighten.
and then relax.
i knew a cuban guy who worked can when he was young,
can you imagine it?
he said that the tension that it bred in his back was enough to make you laugh.
bending and rising sixteen hours a day,
we looked around the living room.
your sweating skin pressed on me and we were drowning.
and i don't want to hurt you anymore.
rivers of babylon
meanwhile downstairs
i'm setting up shop
a little too proud
to let the matter drop
i can you see you up there,
isn't it romantic?
you're huffing and puffing
their chairs on the titanic
and i reach for a glass
of cool water drawn from the rivers of babylon.
meanwhile outside,
the stars have come out.
and the humid summer air
tugs at the ring in my snout.
and you come to the window,
and i spread wide my arms.
jump if you want to jump.
jump if you want to.
the water's warm.
me, i know.
i know 'cause i've been swimming.
blindly along through the rivers of babylon.
going to brazil
you've got something magic in your eyes.
you don't have to say you're sorry.
you've got a sentence waiting on your tongue.
pronounce it now.
i'm going where the air is hot.
where they speak a language sorta like one i can speak.
i'm going to south america.
don't wait up for me.
you've got what i need, but i can't have it.
that's alright.
you're everything i want and i can't touch you.
let me touch you anyhow.
i'm going where the air is hot.
where they speak a language sorta like one i can speak.
yeah i am going to south america.
don't wait up for me.
i've got what you want, but that's enough of that.
that'll be enough of that for now.
it's going to clear-cut twenty thousand acres
when i touch your hair.
i'm going where the air is hot.
where they speak a language sorta like one i can speak.
yeah, i am going to south america.
don't wait up for me.
i'm going to where the air is hot.
where they speak a language sorta like one i can speak.
yeah, i am going to south america.
don't wait up for me.
25
in the front seat at around four in the morning,
something came down without much warning.
it was bright and shiny and real nice
and it prepared us both for the sacrifice.
i know what it is and i know what it means,
and it's got wings.
i know what it is and i know what it means,
and it's got wings.
in the front seat, you know what i mean.
love came down
bright and hot and pure and clean and ready,
ready for the kill.
and i'll get ready.
but hold me hand.
would you please hold me steady?
i know what it is and i know what it means,
and it's got wings.
i know what it is and i know what it means,
and it's got wings.
elizabeth barrett browning
i saw the building burning down.
i saw the dogs come running in two by two.
i saw the feast of saint christopher beginning.
i drew connecting lines between these things.
you say i need to get some sleep.
you say i need to take it easy for a while.
you say i'll never learn to swim at this rate,
but i'm waiting for you downstairs
and the water's rushing in on me.
so i guess the wheel's been set in motion.
i guess the ship, it's gone and left it's little harbor.
i guess we'll wait and see what happens to us next.
and i can't wait because there's rats in the walls.
there are rats in the walls.
there are rats in the walls.
there are rats in the walls.
there are rats in the walls.
there are rats beneath the floorboards,
rats up in the ceiling.
rats in the walls,
there are rats in the walls.
john 4:35
there was a gas leak on a surface street somewhere
and we were stuck in traffic
and so i ran my fingers thorough your hair.
and the sun beat down through the windshield.
can you remember the heat?
and the taste of your tongue was thick and pure and impossibly sweet.
and the fields are white unto harvest.
the fields are white unto harvest now.
the fields are white unto harvest.
the fields are white unto harvest now.
the light turned red then green then yellow then red then green again
and i felt that shivering rippling feeling go through my spleen again.
and you leaned toward me.
and your sweat fell on my shoulder.
and i'm swimming back to that moment now before i get any older.
because the fields are white unto harvest.
the fields are white unto harvest now.
the fields are white unto harvest.
the fields are white unto harvest now.
going to some damned english city
your skirt was red and flowing,
your blouse was blue
on the night i locked eyes with you.
it seemed to me like i hadn't seen your eyes since last december.
my shredding muscles
my popping joints
i saw the pupils of your eyes by firelight shrinking down to pinpoints
you were poking at the embers
there's a cold wind coming off the ocean.
there's a cold wind coming off the ocean.
i wet my finger with my tongue and pressed it in the ashes,
rubbed it up against your perfect eyelashes.
you said something really important,
something pretty seems to have slipped my mind.
walls were freezing, so was the floor.
i didn't want to hurt you anymore.
you had a sad, sad, friend in front of you,
that dying fire behind.
there was a cold wind coming off the ocean.
there was a cold wind coming off the ocean.
the plague
there will be blue skies above the green and verdant plains.
churns will swell with fresh butter there will be an abundance of sweet grain.
and we will rise from our sleep. We won't have time to choose what things we'll keep.
and rivers will all turn to blood.
frogs will fall from the sky.
and the plague will rage through the countryside.
la la la la
la la la la
la la la, La la la, La la la
there will be cotton clouds above the fields as white as cream.
there will be loud singing in the churches as we all come out to take one for the team.
and all our great schemes and plans will slip like fishes from our hands.
and rivers will all turn to blood.
frogs will fall from the sky.
and the plague will cover the country with it's anger.
la la la la
la la la la
la la la, La la la, La la la
Hey.
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this
all devils here now
WSABH outtake
on humid evenings you have heard 
your neighbors making noises
that you wonder for awhile about
and then put off investigating
shrieks and squeals and high pitched whines
and we, we are your neighbors.
on hazy afternoons you heard 
your neighbors come and go
and maybe stay away a day or two
and then return appearing worse for wear.
scrubbed up and hollow-eyed
you tried your best to ignore us.
you see us at the grocery store.
you wonder what we're shopping for.
we lean against the Thermador.
eyes fixed firmly on the floor.
pomona's big as all outdoors.
and we, we are your neighbors.
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray / mike s. for transcribing this
deserters
the neighbors are cloning themselves
we found their cocoons in the garbage
we'll either stay high forever, crash in or out or two
sleeping the sleep of the blessed
picking through trashcans with you
the guy on t.v. is a prophet
you just have to look in his eyes
we'll either turn our lives over to christ or
We'll just drift off
trying to better ourselves
giving up after one or two tries
the high school's a front for the yakuza
everyone, everyone knows it
we will all shortly be richer than god if we'll just hold on
as long as we play all our cards right
as long as nobody here blows it
I've drawn up a map of the autumn
the holding tanks full for the night
I heard all about it on vitizen's band
it's a brand new day
we'll be awake until Thursday
the future's disarmingly bright
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this
cut off their thumbs #1
you sprung out on the bed where we lean against the wall.
down among the dregs out where the yellow spiders crawl.
the telephone is broken and the drapes have all been closed.
hands up! Who doesn't know exactly where this story goes?
I'm gonna kill everybody in this room.
I'm gonna kill everybody in this room.
how has it come to this? Well I haven't got a clue.
you looking up at me and us two lowering down at you.
wind shakes the palm trees with an escalating fury.
face the judge or take your chances with the jury.
I'm gonna kill everybody in this room.
I'm gonna kill everybody in this room.
let's have a little music on this hazy afternoon.
let's hope the tension in here finds it's resolution soon.
radio on the windowsill, old white moon above.
god watches over children and he cares for fools in love.
I'm gonna kill everybody in this room.
I'm gonna kill everybody in this room.
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this
mummy's hand
if you prick us don't it sting?
if you kick us won't it hurt?
I am wrapped in scraps of linen and pieces of people's old shirts.
but way way underneath all these sticky bands, I hold all my dreams right here in my hands.
I will rise from the tomb like an infant emerging from the womb.
I spent several thousand years down here all alone.
no way to stand the lonely old ache in my bones.
say the spell three times, crank up the special effects,
I'm gonna cast off all my bandages and see what happens next.
I will rise fully formed like an infant freshly born.
I've been trapped too long, underneath the ground.
in the hollow darkness ain't no grave gonna hold my body down.
I will push my hand up through the earth and I will rise like the cry of an infant at it's birth.
ah ah ah ah ah
ah ah ah ah ah
ah ah ah ah ah
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this
song for my stepfather
you have got that look in your eye
in the pin prick point where kindness goes to die.
I'll be six years old next year.
you erase me
you'll be sorry. you always feel sorry later on.
when you come around to say so, I will be gone.
and in my place meet my letter perfect body double.
you erase me
when I got bigger I set out on my own
took up the reins myself all for you
dug the spurs in clean down to the bone.
but all that comes later.
now there's only you and me
And the replica where my body used to be.
you can go ahead and hit it,
he feels no pain at all.
you erase me.
you erase me.
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this
scavenger babies
wake up all the birds of prey
dig your tools out from the clay 
seal the exits of your room 
watch the cactus flowers bloom
send my regards to the boys down on the corner (x2)
build a house from sticks and mud
listen to the poison singing in your blood 
fill yourself a (?) to drink
carve your initials in the bathroom sink
send my regards to the boys down on the corner (x2)
the city of norwalk in my dreams 
rises like atlantis from a watery grave 
burn the things you have to burn
save all the people you're supposed to save
send my belongings to the drop box in tijuana
send my regards to the boys down on the corner
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this
stable boy song
here come the times of changing tide
here come the days of life and grace
here come the hours of wordless wonderessness
light light will fill this humble place
when you come, the stars will shine brighter than spun gold
when you come, the world will seem shiny and new
my mom told me that someday someone like you would come to set things right
'til you come I'll keep this place ready for you.
Thanks to Alex Glasnovic for transcribing this
accentuate the positive
Originally by Mercer/Arlen
you've got to accentuate the positive
eliminate the negative
latch on to the affirmative
don't mess with mister in-between
you've got to spread joy out to the maximum
bring gloom down to the minimum
have faith or pandemonium
likely to burst upon the scene
to illustrate my last remark
jonah in the whale, noah in the ark
what did they do
just when everything seemed so dark?
they said man you gotta
accentuate the positive
eliminate the negative
latch on to the affirmative
don't mess with mister in-Between
no, don't mess with mister in-Between
I said don't mess with mister in-Between
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray / mike s. for transcribing this
going to pomona
the lights are on in your room so tell me, who's your friend?
and the lights are burning in the little house on east end
and I remembered who I was and what I came here for
the moon was caught high in the branches of the sycamore
and on my neck I felt the cold wind
and it licked around my ears and it asked me to ask you, yeah, who's your friend?
and the lights came down over pomona, blazed again before your front door
the moon was caught high in the branches of the sycamore
Thanks to mike s. for transcribing this
2/3 jim's head
Originally by the Baptist Generals
jim cut his head off in the barbed wire
you can't go ninety degrees at a hundred and five miles an hour
and return to my covenant lest i smite thee with a curse
jim cut his head off in the barbed wire
jim caught himself singin' church hymns
he didn't mind cuz his body was behind him
and this is the day that the lord hath made
yes, jim cut his head off in the barbed wire
jim took a mistress in midair
took his mistress down into the good morning
fed her mandarins and chablis straight from his mouth
said something french about her hair
you can't go ninety degrees at a hundred and five miles an hour
and this is the day that the lord hath made
yes, jim cut his head off in the barbed wire
jim took his clothes off so he could drive faster than the devil
he could drive faster in a trans am, he's a godspeeder....what the hell
Thanks to mike s. for transcribing this
furry's blues
Originally by the Furry Lewis
I believe I'll buy me a graveyard of my own
believe I'll buy me a graveyard of my own
I'm gonna kill everybody that have done me wrong
if you wanna go to nashville, mens, ain't got no fare
wanna go to nashville, mens, ain't got no fare
cut your good girl's throat and the judge will send you there
I'm gonna get my pistol, forty rounds of ball
get my pistol, forty rounds of ball
I'm gonna shoot my woman just to see her fall
I believe I'll buy me a graveyard of my own
believe I'll buy me a graveyard of my own
I'm gonna kill everybody that have done me wrong
Thanks to mike s. for transcribing this
francois mitterand
Originally by WCKR SPGT
francis mitterand, do you have the heater on?
francis mitterand, do you have the heater on?
francis mitterand, do you have the heater on?
francis mitterand, do you have the heater on?
give it up, give it up, give it up, give it up
he's in france, 
he's a country in france he's a god, 
and oh can he dance. 
he has sex, when the lights are down low, 
there's one thing, I just gotta know.
francis mitterand, do you have the heater on?
francis mitterand, do you have the heater on?
shows love to the people he rules. 
he knows french, that's diplomatically cool. 
he has sex, every hour of the day. 
there's one thing that I really wanna say.
francis mitterand, do you have the heater on?
francis mitterand, do you have the heater on?
Thanks to Alex Glasnovic for transcribing this
pretty in pink
Originally by the psychadelic furs
caroline laughs and it's raining all day
she loves to be one of the girls
she lives in the place in the side of our lives
where nothing is ever put straight
she turns her self 'round and she smiles and she says,
"this is it. that's the end of the joke."
and loses herself in her dreaming and sleep
while her lovers walk through in their coats.
she's pretty in pink.
isn't she pretty in pink?
isn't she?
nikki oh nikki
performed by john vanderslice on life and death of an american fourtracker
you know that guy
who swept your girlfriend off her feet and out of your arms
in the summer between the sixth and the seventh grade
you know how his name sits in your brain
like a tumor
and how his bright eyes shine in your memory
even now.
let it bug you if you really want to but
friend let me assure you he's going to die
you can take it to the bank that he's gonna die some day
he's gonna die
maybe a few years before you do.
maybe a few years later.
what does it matter in the long run?
you know that girl who you told your secrets to back in high school
the one who faithfully broadcast all of them
throughout the generous pool of your mutual acquaintances 
and made it sound like you were psycho
and in need of professional help
yes, yes. yes you do remember.
well you can carry that grudge or you can let it go
but as sure as I'm singing this song you know
she's gonna die.
she's gonna die. Yes she will.
five'll get you ten. show me the same undignified end
that I will, and you will
and everyone we know.
it may happen 20 years down the line
or it may happen an hour from now
what does it matter?
what does it matter in the long run?
everyone who's done you wrong
everyone who's done you favors
everyone you like
everyone you can't stand the sight of
what does it matter?
what does it matter in the long run?
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this
from tg&amp;y
out behind the safeway just before the flood
huffed some cans of spray paint
and begin to vomit blood.
one more night in this town
is gonna break me I just know.
hang on to your dreams 'til someone makes you let them go.
stumbled on down indian hill,
tail between my legs.
sick taste in my mouth
folger's crystals and hard boiled eggs
if I can't run away tonight
I don't know what I'll do
hang on to your dreams 'til someone beats them out of you.
do what you have to do.
go where you have to go.
when the time comes to loosen up your grip, you'll know.
called my friend in new york
three thousand miles away
half way through her metamorphosis, nothing I could say.
poured my small resentments like rare and priceless gems
hang on to your dreams until there's nothing left of them.
the boys are back in town (w/ ignition (remix))
the boys are back in town originally by thin lizzy
ignition (remix) originally by r. kelly
guess who just got back today?
them wild-eyed boys that had been away
hadn't  changed, hadn't much to say
I still think those guys are great.
they were asking if you'd been around,
how you was, where you could be found.
told them you were living downtown
driving all the old men crazy.
the boys are back in town
(the boys are back in town)
the boys are back in town
you know that chick that used to dance a lot
every night she'd be on the floor shaking what she'd got
man when I tell you she was cool, she was red hot
I mean she was steamin'.
then that time over at johnny's place
this chick, she got up and she slapped johnny's face
man we just fell about the place
if that chick don't want to know, forget her.
the boys are back in town
(the boys are back in town)
I said
the boys are back in town
spread the word around
guess who's back in town
spread the word around
friday night they'll be dressed to kill
down at dino's bar and grill.
the drink will flow and blood will spill
and if the boys want to fight, you'd better let them.
that jukebox over in the corner blasting out my favorite song
the nights are getting warmer and it won't be long
won't be long till summer comes
now that the boys are here again.
the boys are back in town
(the boys are back in town)
I said
the boys are back in town
(the boys are back, the boys are back, the boys are back)
the boys are back in town, yeah
it's the remix to ignition
hot and fresh out the kitchen
mama rollin' that body
got every man in here wishin'
sippin on coke and rum
I'm like so what i'm drunk
it's the freakin' weekend baby 
I'm about to have me some fun
crystall poppin' in the stretch navigator
we got food everywhere 
as if the party was catered
fellas on my left
hunnies to my right
you put 'em both together we're gonna party all night, yeah
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this
song for mitch williams
you came to california.
you left houston by night.
and you looked around anaheim, there was nothing there.
and your fastball has been clocked at better than a hundred miles an hour.
even so, yesterday they let you go.
on the plane home you get them to give you a seat alone,
and when the stewardess comes by
you feel the fire flashing on your eyes
because just between the badge and the belt you can see the strike zone.
yeah, just between the badge and the belt you can see the strike zone.
but you gotta stop thinking that way.
it's ten fifteen on a tuesday morning
and the sky through the cabin window is bright and powder blue.
washing my face
when you come, if you come
make sure you bring some bubble gum.
and a great big bottle of cheap gin, yeah
don't bother knocking, you can just waltz right in.
when you come, if you do come by
make sure you wear your skirt real high.
there's cracked ice in the freezer
and glasses in the sink
you can lie down on the sofa, and I'll fix us both a drink.
and we will teach ourselves to pray in languages
that we don't really speak.
and we will lie about the way it used to be.
when you come, if you come
bring a couple of coconuts and i'll supply the rum.
and i will dim the lights, pull all the drapes
throw in those near forgotten video tapes.
yeah when you come, if you make it out this far
you better leave your pride out in the car.
and you wanna make sure that you bring along some means for forgetting where it was that we went wrong.
and we will teach ourselves to pray in languages
that we don't really speak.
and we will lie about the way it used to be.
i will survive
Originally by Gloria Gaynor
first I was afraid
I was petrified
Kept thinking I could never live
without you by my side
but then I spent so many nights
just feeling sorry for myself
and I grew strong
and I learned how to carry on
and now you're back
from outer space
I just walked in to find you here
with that sad look upon your face
I should have that stupid lock
I should have made you leave your key
if I had known for just one second
you'd be back to bother me
go on now go walk out the door
just turn around now
'cause you're not welcome anymore
weren't you the one who tried to hurt me with goodbye
did you think I'd crumble
did you think I'd lay down and die
well no, not I
I will survive
yeah, as long as i know how to live
I know I'll stay alive
I've got all my life to live
and I've got all my love to give
and I'll survive
I will survive
hey hey
the big unit
I sunk all of my money into swiss gold
and I watched the markets slide
and I stood on the edge of the pacific
and watched the hypodermic needles coming in with the tide
there are two guys just outside of chicago looking for me tonight,
but randy johnson throws a baseball 97 miles an hour and I'm gonna be alright.
I had a fully loaded junk bond portfolio that
didn't work out like it was supposed to
there's a mountain of money in the bond market
that I can't seem to get close to
I've been headed down the road to ruin.
the end is nowhere in sight.
but randy johnson throws a baseball 97 miles an hour and I'm gonna be alright.

for now, extra glenns stuff will be in this file... 
going to michigan
as the car rolled north towards michigan you complained
that all i like to listen to is gary neuman and the tubeway army
well maybe that's true
but what about you
and the blue cheer comprehensive retrospective box set
that's pretty annoying too.
the wing window flew open.
the air was thin.
i heard you say so and i heard
shadings of meaning again
and your fingers touched mine
and that supersonic whine began
near the back of my head
and the white rose burned.
you know exactly what i mean about the burning white rose
yes you do
yes you do
the river song
the little river is blue and long
i sat by the side of it as everything went wrong
i got a letter from the dry city's heart
you say the water distribution system's come all apart
and my place here's threatened
but i had it in my mind
and your face was on the skyline, so sweet and so kind
let them come, let 'em all come down.
let them take a good long look around.
let them see if my rivers won't suit them.
let them drown.
the fish that swim there in the current
with their machine-like faces should be no deterrant
they'll all come toward me 
and i won't move
i know where i stand, i have nothing to prove
because i had it in my heart that you were walking by
and the little river's waters became our separate skies
so let them come, let 'em all come down.
let them take a good long look around.
let them see if my rivers won't suit them.
let them drown.
'cause i had it in my heart that you were walking by
and the whole world dissolved leaving only you and i.
so let them come, let 'em all come down.
let them take a good long look around.
let them see if my rivers won't suit them.
let them drown.
baltimore
when i walked past the chain link fence
and the guard dog came forward to attack me
i knew you were coming home 
i knew you were on your way back
well in baltimore, you will find what you've been waiting for
in baltimore, you will find what you've been waiting for
just beyond the last of the sidewalk, where the beach begins
i heard the airplanes announcing the apocolypse
saw the 737's coming on in
will you hold on for just a minute
will you hold on while i catch my breath
listen, in baltimore, you'll uncover what you've been digging for
in baltimore, you will find what you've been waiting for
going to morocco
there's no wolves around here.
there's no wolves around here.
have a drink.
drink your fill.
from the tap. 
from the still.
if you won't, i will.
but there are no wolves around here.
there's no reason to cry.
there's no reason to cry.
you can have a seat for a while.
relax.
smile.
but don't touch that dial,
'cause there is no reason to cry.
there's a gutteral stop in my throat.
there's a gutteral stop in my throat.
the wind comes in from far and wide.
sands blow.
grains collide.
i'm changing inside.
and there's a gutteral stop in my throat.
carmen cicero
there's power in the name.
but the name's been lost for centuries.
there's poison is in the water
but the water tastes like honey
and we're so thirsty we don't care where we wake up tomorrow.
we don't care, the question can hardly hold our attention.
and this is a song for your young men to sing when they run out of options
yeah, when they run out of options.
there's the faith you can give or withhold
and then there's the one true faith
there's the revolution you came for
and the one you're eventually going to get.
and there's a road that starts right here and leads clear up to saskatchewan
and i brought a full tank and a '67 mustang.
and this is a song for your young women to whistle
while they're driving at high speeds down the highway
the wind up in the trees
the song on the wind
there's a mesage in the song
but the message is hopelessly complicated
and the words on water
and dissapeear before you write them down
but i, i brought the polaroid.
and this the song
and everyone's got sing along
but it hasn't got a chorus
god damn it all.
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
 going to marrakesh 
the fog is lifting from the water.
the bells are sounding on the boats.
and our love is a monster plain and simple.
though you weight it down with stones to try to drown it,
it floats.
it floats.
the day of reckoning is coming
faster than anyone here realizes.
and our love is like jesus, but worse.
though you seal the cave up where you've lain its body,
it rises.
it rises.
i keep waiting for our love to die.
the machines by its bed dim and flicker, but it won't stay dead.
and it perks up when the nurses bring its medication by.
i wish our love could go the way of all flesh.
but it's not right, and its not nice
to try and kill the same thing twice.
would you pack your things?
we are going to marrakesh.
adultery
there's a mean streak in the sky
on the morning when you come by.
and you ask me "would i?"
and i say i would.
and it's an ill wind that blows nobody good.
and i should've known that you'd come my way.
by the dogs spawled out sleeping in the driveway
windows open audibly around the neighborhood,
and it's an ill wind that blows nobody good.
and you touched my hand.
and the sun beats down.
ineffective warnings all over the ground,
and i'm standing on the same spot where you husband stood.
and it's an ill wind that blows nobody good.
rockin' rockin' pet store
one burning afternoon under the waxing jurisdiction of the harvest moon.
we took a right and we went far away and
i remember it as though it were yesterday.
at the pet store.
the stereo played songs we both knew and
i reached my arm around and touched you.
i felt the sun burning into me and
i knew we'd find the physic for my malady
at the pet store.
you hair caught the sunlight as you opened the door
and i'd never seen your hair looking quite that way before.
i heard the parakeets punctuate the moment with their
shrieks and cries.
i saw the reptile cages reflected in your blue eyes.
their green bodies conspiring therein
to form a separate universe where it was no sin 
to want what i wanted right then and there in the pet store.
ambivalent seascape Y
we saw the ship meet the horizon.
we saw it carry him away.
and the streamers on the hull were the last things to wink out of existance
as a cool breeze came in from across the bay.
you dug around in the sand.
you came up holding something.
and when you handed it over with that smile on your face,
i knew the three of us meant less than nothing.
i held the seashell next to my ear, but i didn't hear anything.
i held the seashell next to my ear, but i didn't hear anything.
the dogfish swam beneath the jetty.
where our legs hung down.
and the ocean hugged the sun with her long arms
as the lights came up above chinatown.
i guess this makes it all easier.
i guess it's smooth sailing now.
i guess this irons out all the wrinkles from the fabric.
i guess it never really mattered anyhow.
i held the seashell next to my ear, but i didn't hear anything.
i held the seashell next to my ear, but i didn't hear anything.
going to buffalo
lay down just a little while
honey lemon-chamomile
very soon the plane's coming in.
one hour worth of quicksand
the glass warm against your hand
very soon the airplane will take me away.
i will nuzzle up against you and then,
i will never see you again.
fires burning,
the world's turning around.
words that lose their meanings and then swell up like balloons,
very soon the taxi will come.
all the lies you told me can no longer hold me.
very soon the taxi will take me away.
i will forget how you've done me wrong,
how you've strung me along.
fires burning,
learning to breathe.
[untitled] repetition
well the train touched down in souix city, iowa.
the train touched down in souix city, iowa.
it fell cleanly from the dark sky under the track
saw you from the window there was no turning back.
well, the whistle went off. i was leaning up against the window.
yeah the whistle went off. i was leaning up against the window.
i saw the blue passengers walking past me
and you called up the calvary.
it was so easy, and it was so hard,
you were clutching your copy of kirkagaard.
repetition.
repetition.
brilliant disguise
this is a bruce springsteen song
i hold you in my arms as the band plays
what are those words whispered baby, just as you turned away?
i saw you last night out at the edge of town.
i want to read your mind just to know what i've got in this new thing i've found.
so tell me what i see when i look in your eyes.
is that you baby, or just a brilliant disguise?
i heard somebody call your name from underneath our willow.
i saw something tucked in shame underneath your pillow.
well i?ve tried so hard baby, but i just cannot see
what a woman like you could possibly want with a man like me.
so tell me what i see when i look in your eyes.
is it you baby, or just a brilliant disguise?
now you play the loving woman i?ll play the faithful man.
but just don?t look too closely in the palm of my hand.
we stood at the altar the gypsy swore our future was bright.
but come the wee wee hours well maybe baby the gypsy lied.
so when you look at mei, well look hard and look twice.
is that me baby, or just a brilliant disguise?
the moon
i thought that i was in control.
when i saw her coming, i reached out my hand.
you, you, you would think so too
but there is something here that you do not understand.
she's got skin like you would not believe.
i saw her skin and i went out of my mind.
she's got skin more perfect that the sky,
and i reached out my hand and left the world behind.
noone knew what i was talking about,
i used to say that what i saw through my window
was brilliant sap and strong white camelias.
now i see you coming, and i just don't think so.
she's got skin like you would not believe.
i saw her skin and i went out of my mind.
i reached out my hand and i walked out into the rain.
i was right behind the clouds.
i could just see ya coming.
yeah.
milkcrate
this is a franklin bruno song
all i got is a pool key, but it lets me in
to the place where the surface of the water
breaks its contract with the skin.
you can tell me it's still great to come by and chat.
but i'm not completely convinced that you're willing to leave it at that.
and all the clothes in this milkcrate, they're yours for good.
we can take them out to your car and we can lean against the hood.
and you can tell me it's still great to come by and chat.
but i'm not completely convinced that you're willing to leave it at that.
so let's sit down, take off our shoes.
let's just amuse ourselves from noon 'til two.
let's lie down, take off our clothes.
and just suppose there's no starting over to do.
there's no starting over to do.
there's no starting over.
an army of lovers can't be beaten.
have you ever tried to defeat just one?
straighten the pillows while i neaten up the edges of this mattress
where our struggle's just begun.
and let's sit down, take off our shoes.
let's not misuse the time from noon 'til two.
and let's lie down, take off our clothes.
and just suppose there's no starting over to do.
there's no starting over to do.
there's no starting over to do.
there's no, there's no starting over.
fit alpha vi
I know you never asked for my opinion,
but I'd say that horse is crazy
I know what I think doesn't matter any more,
but I'd say his mind is gone
and I know you feel the same way,
even though you'd rather die than say it
I know you know what I know,
or you wouldn't be sleeping on the lawn
I heard the hooves crack the window,
saw the body come through
saw the big brown eyes flashing
I fell all over you
I got pressure bearing down
on me
There was a reason why I came here,
but I guess now it doesn't matter
I had a good, good, good, good reason,
but I guess now you couldn't care
There is a certain kind of feeling that you get
when you're totally helpless
and there's a different world waiting for me
when I lift my head up
from your thick, dark hair
I heard the hooves crack the window,
saw the body come through
saw the big nostrils flaring
I fell all over you
I got pressure bearing down
on me
alpha aquae
i've grown rather tired of our little game.
you ask me the question.
my answer's the same.
and i couldn't say the day or the year.
but it must be summer, 'cause there's flies in here.
i need water.
i need water.
ants on the window ledge caught my attention.
and i wanted to say so, but i was to tired to mention it.
and we crawled in bed, and melted together.
cursing each other.
cursing the weather.
and i need water.
i need water.
 furniture store 
this is a furniture huschle song
never thought i'd make it.
never, ever thought.
first into surgery.
arrested for perjury.
i don't like freddy mercury.
even though he was probably 
a district court judge
in a dream i had when i was 12
about a furniture store.
furniture store.
furniture store.
furniture store.
furniture store.
memories
this is a leonard cohen song
frankie lane, he was singing jezebel.
i pinned an iron cross to my lapel.
i walked up to the tallest and the blondest girl.
i said, look, you don't know me now but very soon you will.
so won't you let me see,
i said "won't you let me see",
i said "won't you let me see
your naked body?"
just dance me to the dark side of the gym.
chances are i'll let you do most anything.
she said i know you're hungry, i can hear it in your voice.
and there are many parts of me to touch, you have your choice.
but no you cannot see,
she said "no you cannot see",
she said "no you cannot see
my naked body."
so we're dancing close, the band is playing stardust.
balloons and paper streamers floating down on us.
she said, you've got a minute left to fall in love.
in solemn moments such as this i have put my trust.
and all my faith to see,
i said "all my faith to see",
i said "all my faith to see,
her naked body."
rockin' rockin' twilight of the gods
switched on the radio this morning.
heard about the local savings and loan.
how they went under,
took with them everything i own.
that's alright.
it doesn't make me nervous.
'cause i can see the clouds gathering in the distance.
and everytime it rains, it rains pennies from heaven.
and everytime it rains, i'm a rich man.
and everytime it rains, i'm indescribably wealthy.
and everytime it rains, gold coins spill from the heavens straight into my hands.
many have said that the devil was coming.
i looked down at the sidewalk -- three inches of water running.
i looked up at the clouds.
everything looked great.
the financial news network talked about the prime lending rate.
that's alright.
i'm safe and warm.
just over there ya know, near south ontario,
i can see the signals of a tropical storm.
and everytime it rains, it rains pennies from heaven.
and everytime it rains, i'm a rich man.
and everytime it rains, i'm indescribably wealthy.
and everytime it rains, tech stocks spill from the heavens straight into my hands.
many have said that the devil was coming.
i looked down at the sidewalk from the window -- three inches of water running.
all frosting
let's meet out in san bernadino
let's get a case of polish vodka
let's bring out the big guns
the modified israeli ones
let's go back to where we let it all go
let's quit scavenging for bones down in the snow
let's follow the freeway from here
let's disappear
let's get our stuff back from the pawnshop
let's put a bedroom in the attic
let's stay up real late and see if we don't suffocate
let's practice our smiles 'til we're both freezing cold
let's dig up the graveyard 'til we find ourselves some gold
I will tell you when the coast has come clear
let's disappear
Thanks to Alex Glasnovic for transcribing this
how I left the ministry
there was one thing I found that I couldn't help thinking
as they pried me free with the jaws of life
none of this disaster would ever have happened
if I had not been driving my neighbor's wife
to the alta loma day's inn where I'd registered us as
a couple with a name I'm sure some other couple somewhere has
and the last thing I saw before falling unconscious
was your right hand tracing a heart on my thigh
and I thought my god what an infantile gesture
and I thought my god what an indescribable high
the autumn air was sweeter than a slice of wedding cake
as I overshot the exit and I tried and failed to find the brake
Thanks to mike s. for transcribing this
hallelujah
Originally by Leonard Cohen
I finally found the secret chord that david played and it pleased the lord
but you don't really care for music, do ya?
it goes like this:
the fourth, the fifth, the minor fall, the major lift
the hebrew king composing hallelujah
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
now your faith was strong, but you needed proof.
you saw her bathing on the roof.
her beauty and the moonlight overthrew ya.
she tied you to a kitchen chair,
she broke your throat and she cut your hair.
and from your mouth she drew the hallelujah.
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
now you say I took the name in vain
I don't even know the name, but if I did,
well really, what's it to ya?
there's a blaze of light in every word
it doesn't matter which you heard 
the broken or the holy hallelujah.
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
I did my best, it wasn't much
I couldn't feel, so I tried to touch
tellin' the truth -- I didn't come to fool ya.
and though somehow it all went wrong
I'll stand before the lord of song
with nothing on my tongue but hallelujah.
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
hallelujah!
 my inner joan crawford vehicle 
cheap drapes frame the windows
no one speaks his mind
buckling asphalt up ahead
smoking wreck behind
stock footage of a ballroom nearly flooded with champagne
we're lost in the desert and it's never going to rain.
every time in this house someone opens up his mouth
all his hopes and dreams begin their dizzy journey south.
when the pipes begin to freeze we turned on all the taps
tearing a good thing to pieces
bickering over the scraps
fried clams from the diner
diesel on the wind
gorge ourselves on caviar when the boat comes in
wait for someone neutral to reckon up the score
grease on the walls of the kitchen
dried blood on the living room floor
you there in your nightgown
head all full of dreams
all the things we'd sewn together splitting at the seams
try to cauterize the wound
just get nowhere fast
holding each other for dear life
shielding ourselves from the blast.
 surrounded 
cold white moon shines down on colorado
hide my dirty secrets
down here in the shadows
where the quaking aspens
tremble in the snow
hold me up above the rafters
raise me high and let me go
let me fall down through my own roof like a meteorite
let the world and all its wonders leave me to my toys tonight
and my ninty-six inch television screen
let me die.
let me die surrounded by machines.
high winds knocked the power out last night
but i've got my own supply here
all my windows fill with light
and the light floods through the windows to the open plain below
finds nothing but some trees and six fresh feet of snow
and I find a broadcast station that's signed off for the night
and the static floods the speakers in glorious black and white
on my ninty-six inch television screen
let me die.
let me die surrounded by machines.
1 john 4:16 
in the holding tank I built for myself 
it's feeding time 
and I start to feel afraid 
because I'm the last one left in line. 
the endless string of summer storms 
that led me to today 
began one afternoon with you 
long ago and far away 
and someone leads the beast in on its chain 
but I know you're thinking of me cause it's just about to rain 
so I won't be afraid 
of anything ever again 
in the cell that holds my body back 
the door swings wide 
and I feel like someone's lost child 
as the guard leads me outside 
and if the clouds are gathering 
it's just to point the way 
to an afternoon I spent with you 
when it rained all day 
and someone leads the beast in on its chain 
but I know you're thinking of me cause it's just about to rain 
so I won't be afraid 
of anything ever again
 sign of the crow 2 
these roses are the pleasures of the flesh
these ones here they are the pleasures of the spirit
and tucked behind a pornographic picture in a frame
the troops found the pierced heart and they all gathered near it
and the dust clouds bloomed in the dark
and the face gazed up from the frame
roomful of French troops in a Franciscan abbey
history does not recall their names
of the several things that you have to do today
you're gonna regret one
this generation asks for a sign
it isn't gonna get one
bertha took the pictures to the priest
and the priest fell on his face upon the floor
and the story lived on for a decade or two
but no one really knows it anymore
but the blessed heart is seen in the airbrush
and the blessed heart is beating on the wind
and the bodies of the faithful stacked by dozens by the roadsides
stripped and scourged and skinned
of the several things that you have to do today
you're gonna regret one
this generation asks for a sign
it isn't gonna get one 
 i ain't livin' long like this 
rodney crowell cover
I looked for trouble and I found it son
straight down the barrel of a lawman's gun
I tried to run but I don't think I can
he said make one move and you're dead man
I ain't living long like this
I can't live at all like this, can I now
you know the story about the wheel go round
don't let them take you son
at all downtown
came out of houston off of Wayside drive
son of a carhop in some all night dive
dad drove a stock car to an early death
all I remember was a drunk man's breath
I ain't living long like this
I can't live at all like this
you know the story about the wheel go round
don't let 'em take son at all downtown
I live for angel, she's a roadhouse queen
makes texas ruby look like sandra dee
I want to love her but I don't know how
I'm at the bottom of the jailhouse now
I ain't living long like this
I can't live at all like this
you heard the story about the jailhouse rock
go out and do it, don't get caught
I ain't living long like this
 here I am 
mary chapin carpenter cover
I've waited longer for lesser things
but here I am
who really knows what tomorrow brings
but here I am
just in case you were wondering
just in case you got lost again
just in case you run out of friends, here I am
it's so easy to rip and to tear, so here I am
what you need most
vanishes into thin air, so here I am
maps and compasses may stay true
it doesn't really matter what you do
I have never forgotten you
here I am
some days our reach
seems to exceed our grasp
I gave up hoping long ago
I could fix the past
today I called you
for the very first time in a million years
you would never believe me if I told of
these million tears
life doesn't wave as it's speeding by
grab on fast and hold on tight
and don't ever forget to fight this good fight
here I am
 qui&eacute;n como t&uacute; 
ana gabriel cover
El perfume de su almohada, tu lo conoces bien 
y la humedad de sus sabanas blancas tambi&eacute;n 
que suerte la tuya que puedes tenerlo a tus pies 
sintiendo en tu boca sus besos que saben a miel 
Mirando como le hablas de amor el tiempo no se detiene 
y nada tengo yo que esperar aunque me quede en el aire 
Qui&eacute;n como t&uacute;, que d&iacute;a a d&iacute;a puedes tenerle 
qui&eacute;n como t&uacute;, que solo entre tus brazos se duerme 
qui&eacute;n como t&uacute; 
que con ternura cura sus fiebres 
qui&eacute;n como t&uacute; 
Esas noches de locura, tu las disfrutas bien 
y entre sus brazos las horas no pasan lo se 
Mirando como le hablas de amor el tiempo no se detiene 
y nada tengo yo que esperar aunque me quede en el aire 
Qui&eacute;n como t&uacute;, que d&iacute;a a d&iacute;a puedes tenerle 
qui&eacute;n como t&uacute;, que solo entre tus brazos se duerme 
qui&eacute;n como t&uacute; 
que con ternura cura sus fiebres 
qui&eacute;n como t&uacute;


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for songs about fire


pure gold

1, 2, 3, 4,
1, 2
hey don't touch the door.
because the door will surely kill you.
i hear you saying that you don't see what i mean,
well you better look again.
stop looking at the floor.
because the whole building's turning, and turning, and turning.
and don't touch the door.
can't you see the door's burning?
and all at once the street is filled with light.
and all at once the street is filled with sound.
when i hold you i know our number's being called somewhere.
let them come on down.


papagallo

you were standing near the water, when the wind ripped through.
heard your throat open up like a champagne bottle
i heard the one perfect song pouring out of you,
there was a darkening sky reflected on the river.
there was no way of determining where we were
low hills, colors gone crazy,
you standing like a ghost with the water behind you.
it's hard to grab ahold of some things sometimes,
like you need me to remind you.
you were standing near the water.
and i was looking at the water.
then you went down in the water,
and the river began to boil.
there was a minute when i thought i knew what you were about,
and then you opened up your eyes and the lord came out
low hills, colors gone crazy,
you rising from the water like a bird,
you had a pure song possessing you from shoulder to hip
and i recognized every single word.


song for john davis

the day we set sail from england
the wind behind us was fair
the day we set sail from england
there were smiling faces everywhere
and the snow came down on new hampshire today
and the snow came down on new hampshire today
the day we put the grain into the ground
there were smiling faces all around
and underneath the trees we planted when we landed
when i was a child
i spoke with the language of a child
but when i became a man, i put away childish things
and the snow came down on new hampshire today
and the snow came down on new hampshire today


stars around her

i saw the darkness coming down, 
it posed no threat to me
i let the dakrness ease its way around
it was every good thing 
i'd expected it would be
i saw you coming, 
through the twisting vines outside
i saw the new moon collide 
with the stars 
clustered around her.
i saw the young fruit, on the new lime
i felt your breath catch it's rhythm.
i heard your legs push away the tall dry brush
i saw the moon and the stars 
and knew the secrets within them.
i heard you saying 
my name into my ear
no one has to tell me 
why you've come here,
'cause i know.
i know.
i know.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for fast forward #2


noctifer birmingham

i had to stop and catch my breath
when the telephone rang out as loud as death
it was three in the morning
there was a low drone of katydids behind your voice
when i came down from harrisburg pennsylvania
and i saw you by the highway
you asked me if the north was alright
and i said it got kind of cold at night
i could feel your bones shivering way down there in birmingham
and when i came down from harrisburg pennsylvania
and i saw you by the highway
you reminded me of all the things you'd given up forever
and you asked about the children
and you asked about the weather
and then i came down from harrisburg pennsylvania
and i saw you by the highway

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for gold kiss gala: I'll wed you

un r&ecirc;ve plus long que la nuit
on a wednesday, on the 110
I felt the fever rise again.
the weatherman east of here predicted rain.
I hammered the words into my brain.
that you were all I ever needed to get by.
on the long island expressway,
about 4 AM on a tuesday,
humidity like I'd never known before,
and you sleeping like a baby, I could hear the engine roar.
somewhere high up abvoe us in the new york sky,
where time means less than nothing, and noone ever dies,
someone knew that you were all there was worth needing.


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net

lyrics file for full force galesburg

new britain.
you've had it up to here with my west country talk
you can hardly understand a word i say
the shortest tree around here is a hundred feet tall
it's gonna rain today
i try and tell you secrets 'til my face turns blue
i am not getting through to you
all the way across the ocean
they're gathering their strength again
lining up along the country's length again
this morning i know who you are
this morning i know who you are
on the river, the sun is bright gold
and the things you try to say to me make my blood run cold
but i hold you anyway, and we stare into the sun all day
and you're about to leave again
i've learned to read your movements
and i'm learning how to read your mind
the sun climbs up the sky for us above the mississippi
and i feel you in my arms, but you're hardly even with me
this morning i know who you are
this morning i know who you are

snow owl.
you came down from heaven to the branch outside my window
your feathers were the color of snow
the dice were loaded against us ever seeing each other
but one of us had nowhere else to go
in your eyes were all the colors that the rainbow forgot
your wingspan was three feet wide or better
with your voice practicing notes from time's own beginning
you took apart the alphabet letter by letter
and here where it all stops for good
where the cool waters run
thought i saw a mouse kicking in your beak
it was only a skeleton

west country dream.
sure as a surgeon
you slipped your hand into the door jam
blood coursing through the air tonight
i know who i am
and i know who you are
or who you were just an hour ago
static interference on the radio tonight
i know what i know
quick as lightning
you brought your hand back inside
and you shut the door behind you
it's too hot out there tonight
breath rising and falling
expansion contraction
why'd you tell me this?
were you looking for my reaction?

masher.
most of the brine has got to boil away
most of the air has got to choke you
most of june i spent in jail again
i don't mean jail exactly
up in the pine tree
a red squirrel looked down at me
i am losing control of the language again
i am losing control of the language again
most of the things i used to hold on to
most of the things i used to say to you
most of the ways i knew around the local roads
are disappearing daily
high in the cottonwood
you were looking down at me and you sure looked good
your hair hanging down in the leaves
your neck tilted back to make a rainbow
i was losing control of the language again
i am losing control of the language again

chinese house flowers.
the wax paper that i taped over the windows
melted as quick as chocolate in the heat
and it'll probably never come off now
the windows look like frosted glass if you see them from the street
and the dim light that filters through
casts a new light on you
it makes me get all misty because i remember something 
and then i see your shadow
and i, i wanna follow you all the way down this time
i want to see what it is you're going down for
i, i want you more than i want anything
i want you the way you were
you were lying in the moonlight outside in the grass
when i heard an animal voice somewhere in the dark
and i saw a wing shadow pass
and just then the gleam in your eye made my blood freeze
there was something up above us
rustling in the branches of the trees
and i, i pressed up against you again
i could hear your heartbeat steady, and hard, and pure
i used to love you so much that i was sure it would kill me
and i want you the way you were

ontario.
i know what my weaknesses are
probably better than you do
revolutionary chinese propaganda
the color of blue
i thought i knew what my weaknesses were anyway
then the orange tree blossomed last saturday
there was nothing in it but pain for me
i know what can hurt me real bad
and what can't hurt me anymore
i know how to rise up with the sun
and i am learning what sleep's good for
i thought i'd figured out the world and its circular way
then i saw the sun fall out of the sky the other day
there was nothing in it but pain for me
squirrels climbing trees in bloom
soft yellow light spilling into the room
my favorite records, my favorite books
the people i loved, the people i almost loved
light beckoning, wind whistling
hey hey hey hey
day breaking river rolling
hey hey 
la la la la

down here.
on venus it rains sulfuric acid
and the raindrops evaporate before they hit the ground
[actual lyric]
japanese red-crowned cranes by the water here
[alternate lyric]
japanese red clowns train by the water here
trouble in town
i feel like i'm gonna drown down here
it's all coming down down here
hurricane's in from australia
tore up the neighborhood
a telegram from lithuania
and the news is not good
and i don't speak the language down here
it's all coming down down here
yeah
johnson johnson is my name
brooklyn is my station
heaven is my resting place
and God is my salvation

twin human highway flares.
you turned to me and asked me if i'd always be your boy
as we drove across the river into western illinois
and on the railroad bridge, half a mile of solid steel
wheels were spitting out sparks, scraping at the rails
wind in your hair all right
sunset spilling through the rear window
your white t-shirt hugging your shoulders, beaded with sweat
on the day that i become so forgetful
that all of this melts away
i will burn all the calanders that counted the years down
to such a worthless day
as we walked across the parking lot toward the motel office
we were walking with a ?benediction? on us
light was everywhere, the building stood against the sky
like a monument to desperation 2 floors high
a mile and a half from the river
we went back to the car to get our overnight bags
sunset spilling through your earrings, all over your body
when we shut the motel door behind us, we knew we'd hit the motherlode
on the day that i forget you, i hope my heart explodes

weekend in western Illinois.
the land's opening up like a blanket,
and the dandelions spread themselves thickly out
along the fields, which are, evidently, endless;
and we are hotly in love with one another.
we've got an unquenchable thirst in our throats.
we are, for some reason, all the time, bleeding,
and we are friendless.
and we love these dogs that roll on the lawns here in galesburg --
because they seem to know something nobody else knows.
it is written in the smiles on their faces,
and it rings in their high young voices
we are burning up all of our choices up here
where the tall grass grows, up here in galesburg.
the sky's opening up like an old wound,
and the rain on our bodies is warm tonight
and the ground underneath us shakes in the cracking thunder.
we can taste fresh blood in our mouths again:
there is no chance of getting enough of it,
and we tally up all our possessions, we're going under.
but we love these dogs that loll in the rain here in galesburg
as the new season rocks them in its terrible arms.
yeah they howl as though the world were ending,
and we are watching the sky unwinding
and some of our promises were binding up here where our dreams take form
up here in galesburg.

US mill.
way up north
down the road a little
back in new england
right here in the middle
and all the way out west
we had our ears to the ground
all of our dreams resting in the same spot
listening for the old sound
it was ringing as clear as crystal
it was shining as bright as gold
grain gathering on the stone floor
and we were spring-heeled and we were real cold
all summer long
deep into autumn
in a high room
and down here in the bottom
down here in the bottom

song for the julian calendar.
sun twinkling on the river this evening
i tasted chocolate on my tongue
darkness climbing up the ladders to the sky
rung by agonizing rung
i heard firecrackers popping next door
wondered what it is i bargained for
when i lay quiet on the floor and you were knocking
let me be your witness
let me walk out on the edge
the sun refused to shine on my backyard today
darkness climbing up the house
coming through the window ledge
i saw the firecrackers bursting on the sidewalk
i heard you talking your baby talk
i saw the bright lights again and
i felt the shock when you were knocking

maize stalk drinking blood.
lying in the hot sun today
watching the clouds run away
thought a little while about you
the sky was a petrifying blue
and while the geese flew past
for no reason at all
i let the sky fall
this is an empty country, and i am the king
and i should not be allowed to touch anything
i picked myself up off the ground
shook the grass from my hair and i
walked around
felt the warm sun in my eye
strangers were passing by
i shinnied up the black walnut tree
let the hard blue sky fall right through me
and i saw the sad young cardinals, trying to sing
and i should not be allowed to touch anything

evening in stalingrad.
when you were nineteen i first laid eyes on you
the small stream that ran through the center of town
carried your name to me
your hair was dark and your eyes were a frosty blue
and then they put me in jail 'til you were twenty-three
when you were twenty-four we took to drinking and dancing
we boxed with our shadows like a couple of kangaroos
and then we went down to chechnya for the weekend
your eyes were glacial and your promises all rang true
and things are happening here while we sleep
i can feel it in my boiling brain
and i am dreaming in blood-red color
when i see the stolypin car riding through the light rain
they'll have to carry me out on my back
they'll have to tear me to pieces all right
we are warm in our hidden room down here
we've got stars in our eyes tonight

minnesota.
seeds came in the mail today from holland
and the language on the package was wonderful and strange
all sorts of flowers that grow up from the earth
in goodly colors gloriously arranged
i circled the house and i scattered them around
let the water sink down into the soil
stared a long time at the residue
blood, milk and oil
god the humidity is something
our shirts are soaked clean through
the house is throbbing and the heat keeps coming
and i keep looking at you
and then you're singing in dutch to me
and i recognize the song
it seems so old and so fragile 
and i haven't heard it in so long
we may throw the windows open later
but we are not as far west as you suppose we are
hot wind coming off the water
the sky gone crazy with stars
while we stay here we imagine we're alive
we see shadows on the walls
there's something waiting for us in the hot, wet air
sweat, water and alcohol
just the old blood
rising up through the wooden floor again
just the old love
asking for more again

original air-blue gown.
rain all burned away
the horseflies are an irridescent green
plums boiled down to pulp
drying on a screen
bright red air inside the house here
i can barely draw breath
dark blue shapes popped behind my eyelids
i am not afraid of death
and on the television
black and white footage of the young Cassius clay
my god, my god, my god
he was something
fists flashing as he comes toward the screen
sailing headlong into nothing
and disappearing
reappearing
out there in the clearing
floating down the slight breeze
that plays along the edge of the leaves
it's you.
it's you.
it's you.

it's all here in brownsville.
meanwhile out where nothing starts
out where the rail yard ends
the sun up above is trying to kill himself
we were watching the skies again
why do we come down to brownsville
year after year after year
this was the question we never even posed
ringing like a siren in our ears
down on the mexican border
in the unfathomable heat
with our shirts tied around our waists
and the world at our feet
we looked at one another's bodies
figured we looked all right
ready to die if we had to
watching the skies all night
and i was sure my heart would break
when the sun sank down into california
i felt your breath on my neck, it was hot and good and pure
and i wanted to warn you
and it's all coming apart again
it's all coming apart again
it's all coming apart again
it's all coming apart again
hot garden stomp lyrics 
 lyrics file for hot garden stomp 
 
 
pure milk 
 
the moon's full, and the sky is bright, 
and so you and me are gonna get drunk tonight. 
we're gonna steal some tractors and head on into town, 
find the main strip and start mowing them down. 
don't come to the window till you're sure it's me. 
don't ignore the obvious. take a deep breath. 
put your hand on the god damn radio. 
put your hand on the god damn radio. 
fields are full of spirits, but no one cares at all. 
a light above you flickers when you hear me call. 
and I'm shaking when I see you there cause I don't know what it means. 
but the ground is looking dry tonight and bursting near the seams. 
so don't come to the window till you're sure it's me. 
don't ignore the obvious. take a deep breath. 
put your hand on the god damn radio. 
put your hand on the god damn radio, yeah. 
 
ice blue 
 
the sky was pale. the day was gloomy! 
boy your eyes burned through me. 
thought that I knew what colors were. 
ha ha ha! ha ha ha! 
thought that I knew what colors were, 
before I saw you... 
ice blue! 
 
water song II 
 
they'll be singing out loud 
when the water goes through the crowd. 
they'll be howling for you 
when the waves come crashing through. 
I brought my friend. here he comes, 
splashing, gurgling for you. 
now the water runs through the streets unimpaired, 
crashing through. 
they'll be saying your name, 
every voice different, every word the same. 
they'll be holding you up 
too close to the sun, 
but I will make them stop. 
I brought my friend. here he comes, 
splashing, gurgling for you. 
and now the water runs through the streets unimpaired, 
rushing through. 
still ??? singing, go stand in the light. 
when my friend gets here he will set things right. 
they'll be singing for one thing and they'll get this instead. 
let them come and get me, let them strike me dead. 
I brought my friend. here he comes, 
splashing, gurgling for you. 
now the water runs through the streets unimpaired, 
rushing through. 
I brought my friend. here he comes, 
splashing, gurgling for you. 
and now the water runs through the streets unimpaired, 
rushing through. 
 
sun song 
 
the sun was a yellow eye in a blue face 
when you came over to my place 
and you said how things looked dead around here. 
well that's alright if things look dead around here, 
cause it's only a little while longer that things are gonna look dead around here. 
and there are certain gardening skills that you don't have yet. 
and there are certain gardening skills that you'll never learn. 
how to leave alone what's doing fine, 
how to mulch what's dying on the vine. 
there are certain gardening secrets you don't know. 
you said the soil looked nitrogen poor, 
well, don't you worry about the soil looking nitrogen poor. 
I think that's my problem if the soil is nitrogen poor. 
but for myself it looks kind of nitrogen rich. 
and there are certain gardening secrets you don't have yet. 
and there are certain gardening skills that you'll never learn. 
how to leave alone what's doing fine, 
how to mulch what's dying on the vine. 
there are certain gardening secrets you don't know. 
 
going to japan 
 
there's a north wind coming in 
and there's a west wind coming in 
and there's an east wind coming in 
and there's a strong wind blowing in from the south 
and there's a sweet metallic taste in my mouth. 
there's a dead feeling lingering over the wind. 
and there's a one-way ticket in my hot little hand 
and I'm kissing your eyelids and I'm going to japan. 
there's life and liberty on my tongue 
and there's a dead silence where the wind-chimes hung 
and on some mountain somewhere in the world it's snowing 
but here in the fields there's not a thing growing. 
maybe next year, ya know, there is a way of knowing. 
there's wind coming in from all directions. 
there's a coat on my shoulders--midnight connections. 
and I'm kissing you and leaving you behind in the sand. 
I'm holding you a while then I'm going to japan. 
 
are you cleaning off the stone? 
 
I'd like to begin by saying that I saw you coming, 
but that would be a lie. 
I'd like to say that I can hear your voice, 
but I couldn't mean 'hear' in the accepted sense of the word. 
are you cleaning off the stone? 
that's a sweet thing to do. 
are you cleaning off the stone? 
that's sweet of you. 
they tell me your hair's gotten much, much longer. 
I bet it looks nice. 
they tell me your eyes are the same color as they always were. 
that kind of information just floors me. 
are you cleaning off the stone? 
that's a sweet thing to do. 
are you cleaning off the stone? 
that's sweet of you. 
are you cleaning off the stone? 
that's a sweet thing to do. 
are you cleaning off the stone? 
that's sweet of you. 
 
the hot garden stomp 
 
the room was unbearably hot.
flowering plant that hung from the radiator pipe. 
it was dripping sweat from its rapidly fading petals. 
and to the humming world in which I was living, 
a crescendoing stepping sound came in. 
heard you stepping over three weeks' worth of newspapers 
piled up outside the door. 
I hear you knocking. 
come in. 
turn on the radio. 
turn up the volume. 
you sat down in the same place where you used to sit. 
it brought back a memory or two. 
I may not know much any more, but I remember you. 
you were quiet for a while, and that was nice. 
then you came along with your questions, 
always questions. 
I don't have any answers to those particular questions. 
I hear you talking. 
shut up! 
turn on the radio. 
turn up the volume. 
 
love hymn to aphrodite 
 
[spoken:] the actual date is the 17th of april. love hymn to aphrodite. 
the sunset gets a little longer every night 
and it's no good but I feel alright. 
the sky turns orange and the colors start swirling. 
you float downstairs, your body spinning 
in perfect circles. 
it's the 18th of july, what what are you doing? 
 
beach house 
 
I get letters telling me since I moved away 
you've taken to hanging out on that rock about a mile from shore 
given what I know about that rock mainly that it's populated by seals 
I strongly suggest to you that you not hang out there anymore 
'cause the seal is a wily and a vicious creature 
and the seal will bite you if you give him half a chance 
yeah the seal has a mind set on violence 
and the seal is the sworn enemy of man 
now when I say that the seal is vicious I use the term advisedly 
according to webster's 9th new collegiate definition 4b. 
which states that vicious means marked by ferocity 
and offers as a synonym...savage 
'cause the seal is a vicious and a wily creature 
and the seal has a mind full of evil designs 
and the seal will harm you and laugh about it 
yeah the seal is not a creature you want to toy with 
yeah the seal is not a creature you want to toy with 
 
hello there howard 
 
the guy on my right is new 
and he says he feels kinda sad and his hands are cold 
and he refuses the dice 
so I pick 'em up myself.
I let 'em roll. 
and the little white spots gleam like stars 
and the guy on my right gets a look at the stickman 
and he begins to sense where it is that we are 
and the table's hot 
but so am I 
and I grab the bones and I let 'em fly. 
so come 2 come 3 come 4 come 5 come 6 come 7 come 9 
it doesn't matter to me now 
'cause I've got all kinds of time.
 
going to norwalk 
 
at one thirty on a thursday night 
I saw a pair of raccoons heading to the gutter 
they stopped at the storm drain 
their tails hung down and out of sight 
they looked up at me 
their eyes were shining 
I thought of you 
and I can't stand the way the moon expands and fills out  
the corners of your california sky 
I can't stand it 
the old buildings stood tall against the sky 
the windows had old sheets hanging over them doubling as curtains 
and the silhouettes moving in the bright lights behind the curtains 
looked like you 
I stopped moving momentarily 
the world will 
stand still on nights like these 
without any kind of warning 
and I can't stand it. 
 
fresh cherries in trinidad 
 
when I woke up on saturday and you came in 
you brought the sunlight in 
I felt sleep slipping away from me 
I feel things occasionally like this 
fresh cherries 
hanging from your fingers 
when the water on the window let the sunlight through 
and I got a good look at you 
standing above me bright and tall 
there are no words for it 
there are no words at all 
I saw 
fresh cherries 
hanging from your fingers 
 
feed this end 
 
ok 
come here you 
what? 
I want you to be my love slave 
yes master oh you ??? 
who me? 
it goes both ways 
it does? 
mmm yeah. 
I'm gonna be your love slave? 
uh-huh 
stood near the cage of the prize-fighting cock 
the sun cut through the clouds but the air pressure dropped 
and I touched your hair for the very first time 
I have that moment with me now 
it's all mine 
and you 
showed me a thing or two about power in its purest form 
a few minutes later you went back inside 
and I stood near the clothesline where strips of beef dried 
hanging in the noon-day sun 
flies were buzzing nearby 
and then your face in the window caught my eye 
and you 
showed me a thing or two about power in its purest form 
things don't look much different now from where I stand 
looking for you with camera in hand 
someone's gone away 
and someone's gotten taller 
but the world stopped turning and the universe is much smaller 
since you 
showed me a thing or two about power in its purest form 
yeah you 
showed me a thing or two about power in its purest form 
 
15-1 
 
if I had a car and you were riding in it 
I'd show you what my car could do 
I head east down highway fifteen and see the starlight 
shower over you 
gas fumes rising from the blacktop 
cheap hotels with flashing signs 
just an old sweet song made new 
and oozing through the pines 
if I had thirty dollars and I could make time stop 
and the moon was high up above 
and moon beams fell like sweet cream 
and the night air would carry our dark dreams 
gas fumes off the highway  
neon flashing everwhere 
just an old sweet song made new by your body 
and desert flowers blooming in the thick night air 
 
thanks for the dress 
 
...he'll still be like 
...it's so good. she's 
...tell ya about personal testimony 
...please keep feeding us 
the young sun 
the old story forming 
hasn't been the same 
since dad came by this morning 
did you see the way mom's looking at us 
mark it well 
your eyes meet mine 
when we hear her call 
the strange birds in the yard 
are perched above the symbols that she painted on the garden wall 
did you see the way mom's looking at us 
did you see the way mom's looking at us 
don't say anything 
 
tell me on a sunday 
 
don't write a letter 
when you want to leave 
don't call me at three a.m. from your friend's apartment 
I'd like to choose 
how I hear the news 
take me to a park that's covered with trees 
tell me on a sunday please 
let me down easy no big song and dance 
no long faces no long looks just deep conversation 
I know the way 
I want to spend that day 
take me to the zoo 
with big chimpanzees 
tell me on a sunday please 
don't want to know who's to blame 
won't help knowing 
I don't want to fight day and night 
it's bad enough that you're going 
don't leave in silence - no words at all 
don't get mad and slam the door 
it's no way to end this 
I know how I 
want you to say goodbye 
by the circus tent with a big trapeeze 
tell me on a sunday please 
I don't want to fight day and night 
it's bad enough that you're going 
don't leave in silence - no words at all 
don't get mad and slam the door 
it's no way to end this 
I know how I 
want you to say goodbye 
don't run off in the pouring rain 
don't call me as they call your plane 
take the hurt out of all the pain 
take me to a park that's covered with trees 
tell me on a sunday please 
get lonely
Lyrics file for get lonely

wild sage
I leave the house as soon as it gets light outside
like a prisoner breaking out of jail.
and I steal down to business 15-501
like I had a bounty hunter on my tail.
and somebody stops to pick me up,
but he drops me off just down the block.
and along the highway where the empty sprits breathed,
wild sage growing in the weeds.
walked down the soft shoulder and I count my steps.
heading vaguely eastward, sun in my eyes.
and I lose my footing and I skin my hands, breaking my fall.
and I laugh to myself and look up at the skies
and then I think I hear angels in my ears
like marbles being thrown against a mirror.
and along the highway, where unlucky stray dogs bleed,
wild sage growing in the weeds.
and some days I don't miss my family.
and some days I do.
and some days I think I'd feel better if I tried harder.
most days I know it's not true.
I lay down right where I fell, cold grass in my face.
and I hear the traffic like the rhythm of the tides.
and I stare at the scrape on the heel of my hand,
'til it doesn't sting so much,
and until the blood's dried.
and when somebodyone asks if I'm ok, I don't know what to say.
and along the highway, from cast-off, innumerable seeds,
wild sage growing in the weeds.
new monster avenue
shadows on the broad lawn, canopy of trees
sometime after midnight, the ground is gonna freeze.
birds in the frosty air, what are they doing there?
greenhouse full of butcher's broom, breezes at my back
some time before the sun comes up, the earth is gonna crack.
I look down at my hands, like they were mirrors.
fresh coffee at sunrise, warm my lips against the cup.
been waiting such a long time now, my number's finally coming up.
all the neighbors come on out to their front porches, waving torches.
half dead
it was raining outside, so I cleaned house today.
spent half of the morning throwing old things away.
try not to get caught up,
try to think like a machine.
focus in on the task, try not to think about what it means.
can't get you out of my head.
lost without you,
half dead.
took my spot at the window, looked out at the road.
dots and dashes of traffic, like a messaging code
of whole boxes of memories wrapped up at the curb,
I sang songs to myself that didn't have any words.
can't get you out of my head.
lost without you,
half dead.
stole out to the backyard late last night.
pine trees frozen in the silvery moonlight,
rising like giants from the cold earth.
what are the years we gave each other ever gonna be worth?
can't get you out of my head.
lost without you,
half dead.
get lonely
I will rise up early and dress myself up nice
and I will leave the house and check the deadlock twice.
and I will find a crowd and blend in for a minute
and I will try to find a little comfort in it.
and I will get lonely and gasp for air.
and send your name up from my lips like a signal flare.
and I will go downtown, stand in the shadows of the buildings
and button up my coat, trying to stay strong, spirit willing.
and I will come back home, maybe call some friends,
maybe paint some pictures,
it all depends.
and I will get lonely and gasp for air.
and look up at the high windows, and see your face up there.
maybe sprout wings
a bad dream shook me in my sleep and I woke up sweating.
ran through the dark to the shower,
already forgetting.
tried to think good thoughts.
trying to find my way clear.
let the room fill with steam,
traced pictures on the mirror.
ghosts and clouds and nameless things.
squint your eyes and hope real hard,
maybe sprout wings.
I clawed my way to the living room window,
stood there in the cold.
the last bits of my dream like figures in the distance,
hard to hold.
I thought of old friends, 
the ones who'd gone missing.
said all their names three times.
phantoms in the early dark,
canaries in the mines.
ghosts and clouds and nameless things.
squint your eyes and hope real hard,
maybe sprout wings.
moon over goldsboro
I went down the the gas station for no particular reason,
heard the screams from the high school --
it's football season.
empty lot the station faces, will probably be there forever.
I climbed over the four foot fence,
I was trying to sever the tether.
moon in the sky, cold as a stone
spend each night in your arms, always wake up alone.
I lay down in the weeds, it was a real cold night.
I was happy until the overnight attendant switched on the floodlight.
walking home I was talking to you under my breath,
saying things I would never say directly.
I heard a siren on the road highway ahead.
kinda wish they'd come and get me
frost on the sidewalk, white as a bone
tried to get close to you again, always wake up alone.
and as i was crossing our doorstep,
i hesitated just a moment there.
remembered the day we moved into our small house
'til the vision got too vivid to bear.
you were almost asleep, halfway undressed
i lay right down next to you
held your head against my chest.
and a guy with any kind of courage
would maybe stop to think the matter through
maybe hold you still and raise the question,
instead of blindly holding on to you.
but we crank up the heat
and you giggle and moan,
spend all night in the company of ghosts, always wake up alone
in the hidden places
autumn came around like a drifter to an onramp
there were wet leaves floating in gutters full of rain.
took to walking barefoot around town
melodies from grade school, kicking in my brain.
saw you on the crosstown bus today.
you were reading a magazine.
I turned my face away and I shut my eyes tight.
and dreamed about the flowers that hide from the light on dark hillsides
in the hidden places.
the brakes howled and the bus pulled up near my house
and I got off at the corner.
pulled my sleeves down over my hands, over my hands.
and I wished I was someone else.
and I wished it was warmer.
and when I got home, I thought about you.
like a desperate policeman, searching for clues
and I almost passed out, just then
and I shut my eyes again
headed for the dark hillsides
in the hidden places.
song for lonely giants
no one washed behind my ears.
high in the trees alone for years,
practicing my solitary scales 'til they rose like balloons
watching them go where they will go.
face in the leaves, song in my throat.
fall through the air, hoping to float.
practicing my solitary scales 'til they grow heavy,
too heavy to carry.
watching them go where they will go.
woke up new
on the morning when I woke up without you for the first time,
I felt free.
and I felt lonely.
and I felt scared.
and I began to talk to myself almost immediately,
not being used to being the only person there.
hmmmm
the first time I made coffee for just myself,
I made too much of it.
but I drank it all,
just 'cause you hate it when I let things go to waste.
and I wandered through the house, like a little boy lost at the mall.
and an astronaut could've seen the hunger in my eyes from space.
and I sang oh
what do I do?
what do I do?
what do I do?
what do I do without you?
on the morning when I woke up without you for the first time,
I was cold, so I put on a sweater.
and I turned up the heat.
and the walls began to close in
and I felt so sad and frightened,
I practically ran from the living room out into the street.
and the wind began to blow and all the trees began to bend.
and the world in its cold way started coming alive.
and I stood there like a businessman waiting for a train.
and I got ready for the future to arrive.
and I sang oh
what do I do?
what do I do?
what do I do?
what do I do without you?
if you see light
when the villagers come to my door,
I will hide underneath the table in the dining room,
knees drawn to my chest.
when the villagers come to my door,
I will breathe shallow breaths from high up in my stomach
ah hah hah hah hah hah hah hah
waiting for the front door to splinter,
waiting all winter.
when the villagers come to my door,
I'll be all tucked away with my face to the floor and my eyes closed.
and no one knows how to keep secrets 'round here
they tell everyone everything, soon as they know.
and then where is there left for poor sinners to go?
waiting for the front door to splinter,
waiting all winter.
cobra tattoo
sun just clearing the treeline when my day begins.
slippery ice on the bridges, northeastern wind coming in.
you will bruise my head, I will strike your heel.
drive past wind of northern pine, try not to let go of the wheel.
dream at night
girl with a cobra tattoo on her arm,
it's head flaring out like a parachute.
prisms in the dew drops in the underbrush
skatecase sailor's purses floating down in the black needlerush
higher than the stars I will set my throne.
God does not need Abraham, God can raise children from stones.
dream at night
girl with a cobra tattoo
and try to hear the garbled transmissions come through.
in corolla
the day I turned my back on all you people
I felt an itching in my thumbs.
the salt air like a broadcast from the distant, dark beyond
when my transformation comes.
I went down to the warm, warm water
saw a pelican fly past
waved once at the highway and then left all that behind me
I went wading through the grass.
and no one was gonna come and get me.
there wasn't anybody gonna know.
even though I leave a trail of burnt things in my wake
every single place I go.
and it was cool, and it was quiet
in the humid marsh down there.
i let my head sink down beneath the brackish water,
felt it gumming up my hair.
the sun was sinking into the atlantic
the last time that I turned my back on you.
I tried to summon up a little prayer as I went under
it was the best that I could do.
and I said,
"let them all fare better than your servant",
the reeds all pricking at my skin.
"here's hoping they have better luck than i had down here with you"
all that water rushing in.


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
goar #11

lyrics file for goar #11

creature song 

i remember the sound of your voice
but none of what you said.
i remember the burning in my body
and the buzzing in my head.
and i do remember your voice
smoothing over my only choice.
oh brave new world
that has such people in it.
oh brave new world
that has such people in it.
i can see the look on your face now
yes i can.
bright light dancing all along your eyes
and you covering your mouth up with your hand.
bracelets jangled against your arm.
no harm intended
no harm.
oh brave new world
that has such people in it.
oh brave new world
brave.

pure sound

hey.
the air was cooling down
the sky was blue
i was heading north on tailor stret
when i ran into you
we stopped to talk.
right there on the sidewalk
the air was new and clean
i was inbetween times.
the mountains were clearly visible
and your timing was cruel.
you said almost everything right
and your eyes shone like little jewels.
we were talking
while the temperature dropped.
i was hoping against hope
that the wheel would stop.
you were nineteen,
i was inbetween times.
hey.

 
return to the mountain goats...

return to the gue...

please mail any questions/comments/complaints, or just notes hello to:<a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for hail and farewell, gothenburg

hello, old rabbit
i saw the long row of blue bells.
i saw the fox glove and the night shade.
i saw the cool garden and i though a while about
how i'd been waiting for you since the second grade.
the flowers made the air boil.
the boiling air made me think of you a while.
i did not come here to suffer.
i did not come here to suffer.
i heard the ducks all quacking.
i saw the sunshine on the lake.
i saw you standing near the water
and wondered how long i'd be paying for one dumb mistake.
the sight of you was really something else.
but i don't know what that something else was.
i did not come here to suffer.
i did not come here to suffer.
you're so vain
well you walked into the party
like you were walking onto a yacht.
your hat strategically dipped beneath one eye.
your scarf it was apricot.
you had one eye on the mirror and
you watched yourself a lot.
and all the boys dreamed that they'd be your partner,
they'd be your partner, yeah.
well you had me several years ago
when i was still quite naive.
and you said that we made such a pretty pair
and that you would never leave.
but you gave away the things you loved,
and one of them was me.
i had some dreams there were clouds in my coffee,
clouds in my coffee, yeah.
well i heard that you went of to saratoga
and your horse naturally won.
and then you chartered a leer jet to nova scotia
to see the total eclipse of the sun.
yeah, you're always where you should be and
when you're not you're with some underworld spy
or your best friend's boyfriend.
your best friend's boyfriend.
yeah.
four new trees
the first new tree is tall and good.
it gives hard dark brown burning wood
when winter comes it stands right outside
with its blossom-laden arms spread wide.
the second new tree gives out sweet sticky fruit.
and it took a long time to take root.
sometimes we thought it had given up the spirit,
but now it makes me happy when i'm just standing near it.
the third new tree stands just west of the barn.
its best branches grow thicker than my arm.
i will water him everyday.
and i will chase all the termites away.
but the fourth new tree is my enemy.
yeah the fourth new tree shouldn't be here.
the fourth new tree 
sets its tendrils through the water mains and tries to poison me.
his leaves are thick, always falling, and pure.
i love you. let's light ourselves on fire
what's going to be the death of me?
static electricity.
what's making me take it all too far?
you are.
you are.
what's kepping me up at night?
the streetlight.
what's finally gonna let me sleep alright?
you might.
you might.
how do i know what i know?
where did our love go?
how come the river froze over this year?
what are we hiding here?
i saw you waiting by the mailbox.
saw the mailman come.
saw the neighbors poke their heads out of their windows.
i saw everyone.
milk song
when the sky was the color of cream,
and you started leaving messages on my answering machine
telling me that you were way across town and
would be home in a night or two.
i started keeping track of my losses.
there were only one or two i couldn't cover.
and up there against the milk while sky i saw
fleeting vestiges of you.
the way you vanished gradually
has made a bitter man of me.
and the way you vanished gradually,
has made a bitter man of me.
where the ocean cleaves the rocks real clean.
i dropped my answering machine.
i watched the waves chew it into tiny little pieces of seafoam hissing in the air.
in the balance sheet i'd been keeping in my mind 
i entered two hundred kroners to the left of the debit line.
it was what the machine had cost me.
it was a greater loss than i could bear.
i hear the wheels and knobs whirring down to this very day,
long after the ocean has washed it all away.
i heard the train go by last night.
and it's a slow train outta here, alright.
but the way you disappeared in slow degrees,
has made a very patient man of me.
yeah.
ghosts
i went down yale today
just in the old way
a black dog hobbled past me
his tags jangled on his collar
it made me wish i was dead
it made me wish i was dead
had a familiar sun on me
just like it would always be
rocky soil dry land
i knew it all like the back of my hand
it made me wish i was dead
it made me wish i was dead
a terrific view form here
the sky's clear
the sun's high
i let things lie 
and i know what is and isn't mine
and i was good to get back to the sunshine
but 5 years is a long time
and i spent 5 years in sweden dying for you
i spent 5 years in sweden dying for you
 
red choral diamond spray
as we pull into the harbor in new york today,
i ask you how you're doing. you swear up and down you're ok.
but i can see what's gotten into your eyes.
it's written all over your face tonight.
we will never see ireland again.
we will never see ireland again.
as we hang up the map on the motel wall,
count up the places that we've left behind,
add the distances in between them all,
all the bridges that someone's burned down for us,
all the chances that we burned all by ourselves,
makes us wonder what we were thinking then.
'cause we will never see ireland again.
we will never see ireland again.
we will never see ireland again.
ending the alphabet
we've got the brightest skylight
like a vision of heaven on the evening sky.
and a clocktower two block from the spot where i'm standing tonight.
the avenues are throbbing with people.
and the late sunlight makes them all look like angels.
and the transformation is seamless.
they are unbearably bright.
i can almost hear their voices
as i walk past them all toward the water.
what is there left in a city like this
when everyone you know is gone?
i saw the wind wash them all away and i was freezing.
crane
picked up a fat, gold watch for you
down where the river washes over the avenue.
and i listened to it tick away the minutes.
looked out at the awful sky.
i was afraid that my arm was broken, 
but it was only kinda run down.
i went walking after two last night,
felt like i was the only guy in town.
and i'm not.
i know.
and i don't need you to tell me so.
look at this watch.
look at this watch.
you won't believe what this thing can do.
one frozen river
when my old friend came crawling up the hill,
broken and bloody,
carrying her hair in clumps in her hands,
i let her right on in,
let her right in.
when she stood at the kitchen window,
staring out at the countryside,
and then she looked my way.
i let her right on in,
let her right in.
and when she was stronger than she'd been before,
i opened the front door.
and then i opened the back door.
and the sunlight poured in. 
yeah.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for hardcore acoustic


going to maine*

You and me are in a lot of trouble
And somebody's gonna burst our bubble
Your husband
My wife
My marriage
Your life
Let's go to Maine out on the East Coast
Let's go to Maine right now
Let's beat the retreat
Let's hop on the plane
Let's get out of here
Let's go to Maine
Someone knows what's going on
Someone knows, and someone's gonna tell
Someone's gonna wrap us up in styrofoam and paper
And mail us flat-rate right down to Hell
Repeat Chorus twice, drink heavily for 6 months, repeat Chorus again

these lyrics were donated by john. since he was nice enough to send them, 
i'm leaving them capitalized as he did them...
*originally titled "let's go to maine", "going to maine" is the 2nd "going 
to..." song john wrote.


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net

lyrics file for heretic pride demos
michael myers resplendent
1, 2, 3, 4
I am ready for my close-up today.
too long I've let my self-respect stand in my way.
well the prom queen's caught in the high beams
and the string's keen it's a big scene.
but when the house goes up in flames
no one emerges triumphantly from it.
when the scum begins to circle the drain
well, everybody loves a winner.
I spent eight hours in my makeup chair,
waxed my chest and shaved off all my hair.
well the fire's bright and the frame's tight.
try to get right while we've still got light
but when the house goes up in flames
no one emerges triumphantly from it.
when the scum begins to circle the drain
well, everybody loves a winner.
yeah, and the house goes up in flames
no one emerges triumphantly from it.
when the scum begins to circle the drain
everybody's gotta love a winner.
Last Man on Earth 
1, 2, 3, 4
just when the last of the smoke subsides you'll see my fingers
hoisting my body up atop the charred debris.
who is that creature with the crazed look in his eyes?
don't even question your senses.
you can be sure that's me.
when all the pretenders to your hand lie dead across the land,
I'll be the last man on earth.
I'll be the last man on earth.
I'll be the last man on earth.
crawling around, down on the ground.
when the hail mary's you've been saying lose their savor,
just when your dungeon walls feel like they're closing in,
whose are those bloody knuckles reaching down to grab you
just as the last of the light overhead is growing dim?
it was their love you wanted, not mine.
but when they deny your name three times
I'll be the last man on earth.
I'll be the last man on earth.
I'll be the last man on earth.
crawling around, down on the ground.
and I will throw you across my shoulders.
and I will bleed and I will drool.
and the cameras will slow pan across my face.
and I will try to say something cool.
just as the hoardes of thirsting demons close around us,
raising their axes, howling like monkeys in the sun,
who will that guy be holding you so high above them?
you know and I know.
everyone knows it.
I'm the one.
I may have failed you once before,
but this right here, this means war.
I'll be the last man on earth.
I'll be the last man on earth.
I'll be the last man on earth.
crawling around, down on the ground.
 Toolshed 
out by the tracks where the sunflowers grow high and fine,
three sets of tracks: steve and rochelle's and the last one's mine.
guy with a hat down in the weeds in a carboard box
secrets to keep. 
records to seal up.
kittens weighed down with rocks.
there was a little toolshed where he made us suffer.
back at the school everyone looks like the ememy.
and we couldn't sleep and i had the voices inside of me.
steve and rochelle and me down the well all semester long.
back to the tracks to try and make peace, 
but the box was gone, was gone.
there was a little toolshed where the sad man made us suffer.

heretic pride lyrics 
 lyrics file for heretic pride 
 
sax rohmer #1
fog lifts from the harbor
dawn goes down to day
an agent crests the shadows
of a nearby alleyway
piles of broken bricks
signposts on the path
every moment points toward
the aftermath, yeah
sailors straggle back
from their nights out on the town
hopeless urchins from the city
gather around
spies from imperial china
wash in with the tide
every battle heads toward
surrender on both sides
and I am coming home to you
with my own blood in my mouth
and I am coming home to you
if it's the last thing that I do
bells ring in the tower
wolves howl in the hills
chalkmarks show up
on a few high windowsills
and a rabbit gives up somewhere
and a dozen hawks descend
every moment leads toward
its own sad end, yeah
ships loosed from their moorings
capsize and then they're gone
sailors with no captains watch a while
and then move on
and an agent crests the shadows
and I head in her direction
all roads lead toward
the same blocked intersection
I am coming home to you
with my own blood in my mouth
and I am coming home to you
if it's the last thing that I do
san bernardino
we got in your car and we hit the highway
eastern sun was rising over the mountains
yellow and blood red bits
like a kaleidoscope
and flaming swords may guard the garden of eden
but we consulted maps from earlier days
dead languages on our tongues
holding on to our last hope
and the day was bright and fine   
and the highway sign said, san bernadino welcomes you'
I checked us into our motel and filled the bathtub
and you got in the warm warm water
I pulled petals from my pocket
I loved you so much just then
and it was hard but you were brave, you are splendid
and we will never be alone in this world
no matter what they say
we're gonna be okay
we were safe inside
and our new son cried, san bernadino welcomes you
heretic pride
well they come and pull me from my house
and they drag my body through the streets
and the sun's so hot I think i'll catch fire and burn up
in the summer air so moist and sweet
and the people all come out to cheer
rocks in the pathway break my skin
and there's honeysuckle on the faint breeze today
with every breath i'm drawing in
I want to cry out but I don't scream and I don't shout
and I feel so proud to be alive
and I feel so proud when the reckoning arrives
crowds grow denser by the second
as we near the center of the town
and they dig a trench right in the main square right there
and they pick me up and throw me down
and I start laughing like a child
and I mark their faces one by one
transfigurations gonna come for me at last
and I will burn hotter than the sun
I waited so long and now I taste jasmine on my tongue
and I feel so proud to be alive
and I feel so proud when the reckoning arrives
autoclave
hand me your hand, let me look in your eyes
as my last chance to feel human begins to vaporize
maybe it's the heat in here, maybe it's the pressure
you ought to head for the exits, the sooner the better
I am this great, unstable mass of blood and foam
and no one in her right mind would make my home her home
my heart's an autoclave
my heart's an autoclave
when I try to open up to you I get completely lost
houses swallowed by the earth, windows thick with frost
and I reach deep down within, but the pathways twist and turn
and there's no light anywhere, and nothing left to burn
and I am this great, unstable mass of blood and foam
and no emotion that's worth having could call my heart its home
my heart's an autoclave
my heart's an autoclave
I dreamt that I was perched atop a throne of human skulls
on a cliff above the ocean, howling wind and shrieking seagulls
and the dream went on forever, one single static frame
sometimes you want to go where everybody knows your name
and I am this great, unstable mass of blood and foam
and no one in her right mind would make her home my home
my heart's an autoclave
my heart's an autoclave
new zion
there were signs up in the sky
when we gathered by the garden wall
everybody on his best behavior
listening for the altar call
high priest of salem in his robes
ranting at the coming of the day
ravens at the gates
frightening all the visitors away
I lay down by the water
dreamed a dream of where I come from
old things made new
waiting for you
there were wooden wind-chimes rustling
in the trees above the anthills on the dunes
on the high winds we could hear them
old familiar tunes
the little bit of faith we had once
like the memory of a movie
they got burned up the great fire
reassembling itself slowly but surely
I lay down by the water
dreamed a dream of where I come from
old things made new
waiting for you
so desperate
we were parked in your car                      
in our neutral meeting place, the episcopalian churchyard
I had things I'd been meaning to say            
but in the dazzling winter sun that late I could feel them melt away
and through the warm radio static
I couldn't hear my stage directions
and the fog on the windshield
obscured our sad reflections
I felt so desperate in your arms
I felt so desperate in your arms
we were parked near some trees
and the moonlight soaked the branches in ever-deepening degrees
had my hand in your hair
trying to keep my cool til it became too much to bear
when we cracked the windows open
well the air was just so sweet
we could hear the cars ten feet away
out there on the street
I felt so desperate in your arms
in the craters on the moon
if the strain proves too much
give up right away
if the light hurts your eyes
stay in your room all day
when the room fills with smoke
lie down on the floor
in the declining years
of the long war
well the blood's in the water
and the shark's gonna come
and we swim in the dark
until our bodies are numb
blind desert rats in the moonlight
too far from shore
in the declining years
of the long war
empty room with a lightbulb
where the phone starts to ring
everybody gets nervous
nobody says anything
the next day someone's initials
show up on the door
I think i'm gonna crack
can't live like this anymore
ugly things in the darkness
worse things in store
in the declining years
of the long war
lovecraft in brooklyn
it's gonna be too hot to breath today
but everybody is out here on the streets
somebody's opened up the fire hydrant
cold water rushing out in sheets
some kid in a marcus allen jersey
asks me for a cigarette
companionship is where you find it
so I take what I can get
hubcaps on the car like fun house mirrors
stick to the shadows that I can
lovecraft in brooklyn
well the sun goes down on the armies of the voiceless
several hundred-thousand strong
come without their bandages
their voices raised in song
when the street lights sputter out
they make this awful sizzling sound
I cast my gaze towards the pavement
too many blood stains on the ground
rhode island drops into the ocean
no place to call home anymore
lovecraft in brooklyn
head outside most everyday to try to keep the wolves away
imagine nice things I might say
if company should come
woke up afraid of my own shadow
like, genuinely afraid
headed for the pawnshop
to buy myself a switchblade
someday something's coming
from way out beyond the stars
to kill us while we stand here
it'll store our brains in mason jar
and then the girl behind the counter 
she asks me how I feel today
I feel like lovecraft in brooklyn
yeah!
tianchi lake
children by the water banks laughing long and loud
changbai's high fine western peaks just beneath the clouds
currents in the water churning in their course
body of a sea-lion, head just like a horse
preacher in the soft brown sand begins to speak his piece
high winds in the treetops low flying winter geese
no one taking pictures everybody still
and then the water sought its course again the way that waters will
no one at the lakeside now, moon up in the sky
night birds in the dragon spruce, moaning long and high
backstroking on the surface, moonlight on its face
floats the tianchi monster, staring into space
out around the temple now narcissus in bloom
censers packed with sandalwood send smoke into the room
children in the sand outside on their hands and knees
sketching pictures all day long of stranger things than these
how to embrace a swamp creature
got out of bed, could not remember my own name
condemned to walk the soil amongst all creatures wild and tame
go where I go, do what I must
crawl starving on my belly
licking up the dry dust
I see the light in your window
ride the elevator to the sixth floor
stand with my arms at my sides as you open up the door
but I'm out of my element I can't breathe
I'm out of my element
I can't breathe
alone with your bathroom mirror
try to get my head straight
breathe on the glass and wait for it to clear
clean slate
meet up with you in the kitchen
where the air is hot and dry
open up all the faucets
be fruitful and multiply
I stand where the flashing swords gleam
and I try to shake my head clear of the dream
but I'm out of my element I can't breathe
I'm out of my element
I can't breathe
I start to sweat I can't cool down
I'm scared of all the strangers in this town
I try to tell you just why i've come
it's like I've got molasses on my tongue
I made it through town somehow
but who's going to save me now?
i'm out of my element I can't breathe
i'm out of my element
I can't breathe
marduk t-shirt men's room incident
slumped up against the sink
hair plastered to her cheeks
marduk t-shirt sticking to her skin
refugee from a disco in old east berlin
weightless formless blameless nameless
stray syllables were gurgling
from her throat one at a time
face hidden from my view
I let myself imagine she was you
only weightless, formless, blameless, nameless
and when I washed my hands
I ran the water hotter than I could stand
half rising to a crouch
sinking back down to the floor
when you're walking keep your head low
try to leave no traces when you go
stay weightless, formless, blameless, nameless
sept 15th 1983
long dinner with some friends
way out way out in portmore
servants of the pharaoh
slip in through an open door
all business
bearing knives and zip-guns      
so get on the floor now 
every last one, every last one
the heat drifts across the land
if I forget you israel     
let me forget my right hand
and on the floor michael james williams
feels his fingers start to freeze
and the whole scene's like a movie
paramedics on their knees
try, try your whole life
to be righteous and be good
wind up on your own floor
choking on blood
the heat drifts across the land
if I forget you israel
let me forget my right hand
and the house still smells like onions
when the ambulance arrives
gabriel in postal blue
loads up the car and drives
to spanish town
about three miles away
where will the wicked run to
on that last day, on that last day?
the heat drifts across the land
if I forget you israel
let me forget my right hand
michael myers resplendent
I am ready for my close up today
too long I've let my self-respect stand in my way
well the prom queen's caught in the high beams
and the strings keen it's a big scene
but when the house goes up in flames
no one emerges triumphantly from it
when the scum begins to circle the drain
everybody loves a winner
I spent eight hours in my make-up chair
waxed my chest and shaved off all my hair
well the fire's bright and the frame's tight
try to get right; well, we've still got light
but when the house goes up in flames
no one emerges triumphantly from it
when the scum begins to circle the drain
everybody loves a winner
but when the house goes up in flames
when the scum begins to circle the drain

lyrics file for transmissions to horace


going to cleveland

we both know you're leaving
you just don't want to say it yet
'cause you don't want to hurt my feelings
so you gnaw your little holes in the net
and you torture me with those big eyes
and you punish me with pity
but i'm going to cleveland
you say you wanted to strike first
because one of us was leaving
that's what you say
but i've always been real fond of you
so i never would've treated you this way
and you torture me with those big eyes
and you punish me with pity
but i'm going to cleveland
i hear the cuyahoga calling, now i know
what was i was born for
and you say 'hey john where are you going?'
but that's not my name anymore
and you torture me with those big eyes
and you punish me with pity
but i'm going to cleveland


early spring

the pictures that you paint
aren't as pretty as they once seemed to me
and the coffee's bitter because it's been boiling too long
and the jokes you tell
aren't as funny as they once seemed to me
and the songs you sing are just plain hackneyed
but the stars shine down on all god's children
and the sun sets on the good and on the evil
and i know you
and i know you
the throbbing flowers outside i get it
and the paint peeling from the bathroom wall
and the smile on your face is alive
and the smile on your face is real pretty
and the sun shines down on all god's children
and the stars burn for the good and the evil
and i know you
and i know you


historiography

there was rain
there was wind
there was spring coming in
there was a feeling of approaching doom
and i was happy to see you
it was cold in your room you were warm
and that's all i remember
and you arms were warm
and that's all i remember
later on near morning
we were talking about nothing
a little rain
a little wind
quiet cold cold air coming in
and you were warm
and that's all i remember
and you arms were warm
and that's all i remember
and your eyes were pretty
and that's all i remember
and your hands were soft
and that's all i remember
and the hall was well lit as i walked down it
and that's all i remember
and the rain was light and it felt soft on my face
and that's all i remember
and the car was quiet inside
and that's all i remember
and it was dark when the sunlight was coming
and that's all i remember


No, I Can't.

[john spoken]
hi, it's the mountain goats
it's the seventeenth of december
at nine thirty four in the morning
and this is called no, i can't.
you bought me some candy.
and you bought me some flowers.
and you bought me a sofa.
and you bought me a radio.
thank you for the candy.
thank you for the flowers.
thank you for the sofa.
thank you for the radio.
(now i have everything i need.) x4
you brought me a puppy.
and you brought me a lamp.
and you brought me some books.
and you brought me a filing cabinet.
thanks you for the puppy.
thank you for the lamp.
thanks for the books.
thanks for the filing cabinet
i don't know what i did without it.
(now i have everything i need.) x4
you came by. and you came in.
and you let the wind in.
it must be cold outside.
we looked out, through the sliding glass door.
but i'd forgotten what we were looking for.
thank you for coming by.
it's nice to see you once in a while.
thank you for the coat i forgot to mention.
i've been freezing in here.
i've been freezing in here.
(now i have everything i need.) x4
yeah!


alpha desperation march

i'm coming in.
try to stop me.
push furniture in front of the door.
it only gives me something to push against.
in the full heat of the summer's day,
you're telling me to go away.
but you owe me eight-thousand dollars and i can use it
i'm only getting stronger.
you may have noticed.
but a head full of memories propels me ever further
and in the living room i don't see where you are,
but the back door's locked, so you can't have gone far
and eight-thousand dollars is a whole lot of money
and i could use it.
could be that it's my imagination, but i think i hear you now.
so come out come out, wherever you are.
olly-olly-olly-olly-olly-olly oxen free see i'm
perfectly aware of where our love stands,
but the plain fact is that you owe me eight grand
if it helps to jog your memeory,
i lent it to you on tuesday, when we were drinking.
ha! ha-ha-ha-uh-uh-ha! uh-ha! uh uh uh-ha! uh-ha! ha ha ha


going to monaco

spoken:
...the sargeant drop to the ground
in the shadow of a low branch
they heard a branch crack to the left 
then the sound of footsteps
two of the renegades carrying firewood , a third with a rifle
were walking towards them
closer and closer
the sea gobbles up the full sun 
and i look at you and i know you're the one
the one i used to know something about
and i try to say what it was, but the words won't come out
and you ask me to hold you
that's the devils' work.
you show your palms and i see they're empty 
and i'd check them twice if you'd let me
but you wouldn't do that now would you?
i didn't think so.
and you ask me to hold you
that's the devils' work.
we stand on the sand and we watch the world turn
and we stand on the sand and we watch the water burn
and we stand on the sand six inches from one another
and the sands burn and blow and neither one of runs for cover
and you ask me to hold you
that's the devils' work.
and you ask me to hold you
that's the devils' work.


star dusting

toward the end of our first year in las vegas
you looked up from your little corner
and i saw that your face was getting a little brighter
and you asked me is it really getting warmer
or is it just me
and then you started mumbling unintelligibly
so what are you saying anyway?
i thought i heard bells ringing
but then i remembered that i no longer knew what bells sounded like
i thought maybe we'd strike up a conversation
'till bad luck cruised by on his ten-speed bike
i got real cold
and i grabbed my coat
and i saw that the ringing was coming from your throat
what are you saying anyway?


teenage world

you bought me a rabbit to keep me company
and i'm here in my car and the rabbit's here with me
heading out highway one, respecting posted speed limits
and i tried to figure this one out but i can't find any meaning
and i'm sick and tired of trying to figure out your gestures
and i'm sick and tired of wondering what your presents mean
i'm gonna take this rabbit into malibu 
and he'll chew on sour grass while i wolf down dexadrine
dexadrine.
the wind comes through the open window and i button my shirt
and the rabbit's riding shotgun my teeth hurt
you sent me a package marked "live animals inside"
and the sun's coming up quickly above the rising tide
and i'm sick and tired of trying to figure out your gestures
and i'm sick and tired of wondering what your presents mean
i'm gonna take this rabbit into malibu 
and he'll chew on sour grass while i wolf down dexadrine
dexadrine.


going to santiago

big birds in the trees 
cars locked and i've lost my keys
crashing sounds of the waterfall
and a statue of jesus 200 feet tall
3000 miles from a port in california
and 3 little feet from falling off the earth
and the shadow of a mountain 
should cast a shadow on a 
and the snow underfoot is soft and yeilding
la la la la la la la la la la
la la la la la la la la la la
la la la la 
look at those birds
i'd say something about them but i've lost the words
they're laughing and they're watching me
and the radiator's boiling for no reason
wild cattle crossing as it strikes their fancy
and a handfule of money which does me no good
and a pocketfull of medicine to amuse myself 
with a photograph of someone stapled to my shirt sleeve
la la la la la la la la la la
la la la la la la la la la la
la la la la 


sail on.

sail on down the road
'bout a half a mile or so 
and i tried to make you stay, 
but now you're going
it was plain to see that a small town boy like me
just wasn't your cup of tea that was wishful thinking
i gave you my heart and i tried to make you happy
you gave me nothing in return
you know it ain't so hard to say, 'would you please just go away?'
you come to comfort me 
but i don't need your sympathy
and the way you look at me, well it's condescending.
i feel my stomach churn
and didn't you ever learn 
not to tell someone something ifyou don't mean it
i gave you my heart and i tried to make you happy
you gave me nothing in return
you know it ain't so hard to say, 'would you please just go away?'
sail on.
sail on.
sail on.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for the hound chronicles 
 
lyrics file for the hound chronicles 
 
the garden song 
 
I see the flowers in your garden are in bloom. 
I see the flags are flying high. 
I hear you've gone and rearranged things in your room. 
I guess you're trying to cut-off my air supply. 
I came toward your window, real slowly. 
I knew deep down I was about to strike oil. 
I guess by the now the flowers in your garden know me. 
I felt them trying to get at me through the soil. 
my bare feet felt the cool, soft dirt, 
moving up my ankles, but I don't fear you. 
the thorns began tearing at my shirt, 
but I didn't even care when they tore clear through. 
your garden can't hurt me. 
your flowers don't threaten my life. 
your garden can't hurt me anymore. 
your flowers don't threaten my life. 
 
going to wisconsin 
 
there was the sound of a lake boiling over 
on that day. 
everyone said just to sit still, 
but the thickening air got in my way. 
so the hooks been baited now, 
yeah, the cheese is on the water. 
yeah, all the water's been cleansed of all impurities, 
but now it really doesn't matter. 
let's go! let's go! 
wisconsin bound. 
wisconsin bound. 
wisconsin bound. 
yeah, wisconsin bound. 
the bottom of the boat was a hot-plate come alive. 
but the boat wasn't real, and this is how I feel: 
you don't know where you are, until you arrive. 
and the frogs sang out from the distant banks. 
and you say you need me in california, 
but, no thanks! 
wisconsin bound. 
wisconsin bound. 
wisconsin bound. 
yeah, wisconsin bound. 
let's go! 
 
spilling toward alpha 
 
I hear you moving in the hallway. 
I hear you sharpening your claws. 
I hear you polishing your teeth, sometimes. 
but I don't mind. 
and I hear you out in the garage. 
I hear you messing with the motor. 
I hear you tinker with the engine, sometimes. 
but I don't mind. 
and I hear you moving in the kitchen! 
I hear you in there late at night. 
I notice when you leave the gas jets on sometimes. 
but I don't mind. 
 
alpha negative 
 
the house was pretty and the yard was wide 
and I felt strong, with you at my side. 
your eyes at night, had a beautiful glowing in them. 
and I knew in my heart, just what was growing in them. 
ah, but you made me drink poison. 
it felt smooth running down my throat. 
I love you. and you made me drink poison. 
it was cool and smooth and sweet. 
do you remember... 
we had a bed of daisies thriving in the yard, 
and I quit my job, so I could hold you all the time. 
I tried to stop the thing matastasizing in us, 
but in the warm, slow evening, 
I could feel it rising in us. 
ah, and you made me drink poison. 
it felt so smooth, sliding down my throat. 
I love you so much. and you made me drink poison. 
it was cool and smooth and sweet and cool 
and smooth and sweet and cool and smooth. 
 
the torch song 
 
[spoken:] we'll just try that again. 
the sun was coming up, and our friend was sound asleep. 
but we saw through the window, that the water ran so deep, 
that you couldn't make out, the ocean floor, 
then I saw you in the light. I couldn't take it any more. 
give me your hand. 
give me everything you've got. 
and the light from window will fall on us burning hot, 
just like a torch. 
the air was humid; I will not forget. 
when we stepped outside, I hear your footsteps. 
now in my mind, it's a soft sound, 
almost imperceptible, against the giving ground. 
let me kiss your eyelids with my lips. 
let me feel the heat coming off your fingertips, 
just like a torch. 
 
ape** 
 
you've been away, for quite some time. 
and now the rules are different, 
now everything's mine. 
backtrack. hey say, what's the problem? 
here's the problem: 
everything's mine. 
I can't be quiet. 
I can't be quiet any more. 
I can't be quiet. 
I can't be quiet any more. 
yeah. 
you've been away, for quite some time. 
and now the rules are different, 
now everything's mine. 
backtrack. hey, what's the problem? 
here's the problem: 
everything's mine. 
I can't be quiet. 
**is actually a hebrew word 
 
the cow song 
 
bang, pow! look at me now. 
don't let the cows stray off too far. 
come down, take a good look around. 
see how the cows start to shine like light bulbs. 
I love the cows. 
I love the cows. 
I love the cows, yeah. 
I love the cows. 
rain comes, strikes you dumb. 
re-seed the meadow so the cows don't starve. 
mud puddle's a fine place to cuddle. 
you're a mosquito or a mosquito's baby. 
I love the cows. 
I love the cows. 
I love the cows. 
I love the cows. 
they're smiling in your face. 
all the time they wanna take your place. 
yeah you know who I mean, 
talkin' about those cow-machines. 
I love the cows. 
I love the cows. 
I love the cows. 
I love the cows. 
 
__ 
 
[this song (whose titles is just "--") seems to be just 
some random guitar chords whose speed has been changed 
after recording, perhaps by varying the speed of a record. --j.m.] 
 
going to chino 
 
I'd like to say hello 
to all our friends from chino. 
to the people of chino, hello. 
I'd like to say hello 
to all our friends from chino. 
to the people of chino, hello. 
I know how hard it is, down in chino. 
I know how you struggle, just to get by. 
I know they got farm fresh eggs, down in chino. 
and tract homes, reasonably priced! 
I'd like to say hello 
to all our friends from chino. 
to the people from chino, hello. 
I'd like to say hello 
to all our friends from chino. 
to the people from chino, hello. 
convenient access to the 60 freeway. 
accredited medical care, down at chino valley hospital. 
a unified school system, the likes of which you won't find elsewhere. 
and friendly people. 
I would like to say hello 
to all our friends from chino. 
to the people from chino, hello. 
I'd just like to say hello 
to all our friends from chino. 
to the people from chino....hello. 
 
standard bitter love song #4 
 
well I see you've left me a photograph 
of a leopard tearing an antelope in half. 
what have you done? what have you done? 
what have you done...with our love? 
what have you done? 
well I see you've resorted to petty theft. 
you try to take something from me, 
but there's nothing left. 
what have you done? what have you done? 
what have done...with our love? 
where have you put it? 
well I hear you calling from way over there 
and I can't find it anywhere. 
what have you done? what have you done? 
what have you done...with our love? 
what have you done? 
 
going to mexico 
 
I saw you at your window. 
I saw you in the sun. 
I saw you in the window, looking out. 
I reached my hand in there, 
then I touched your hair 
and felt myself burn, in the morning. 
and the chickens were screaming. 
black dog at my heels. 
and the bluejays were coughing up in the trees. 
I'd forgotten my name. 
I felt kind of ashamed, 
and felt myself burn, in the morning. 
I saw you at your window, 
at the beginning of summer! 
and invisible stars, sent their heat down! 
I imagined your touch, 
it was almost too much! 
burned like a bonfire in the morning. 
 
lab rat blues 
 
I saw you. I saw your hair. 
I could spend the rest of my life in there. 
I saw you, and I sank into your eyes. 
I'm not going to apologize. 
because you, with your own hands, 
made the whole world. 
you can't fool me. 
I'm on to you now. 
because you, with your own hands, 
created everything. 
you can't fool me.
I'm on to you now. 
yeah, I saw you, but you saw me first, 
living water to quench my thirst. 
and you tell me quiet down, 
but I have no doubt. 
I know what you're all about, 
because you, with your own hands 
made the whole world. 
you can't fool me. 
I'm on to you now. 
because you, with your own hands, 
created everything. 
you can't fool me any more. 
I'm on to you now. 
 
going to kansas 
 
you were all were dressed in green! 
clouds bounced against the edges of the sky. 
you had the prettiest hair I'd ever seen. 
we saw the world passing by. 
there was an ocean's droning, 
though we were nowhere near the shore. 
we heard each other giggling and moaning, 
then we couldn't hear each other any more. yeah. 
when my head was resting on your breast bone, 
I could hear your beating heart. 
24 hours later, you had left me completely alone. 
I heard the whole world come apart. 
and you were all dressed in green! 
rising in the sky was an unfamiliar star. 
you know, you know what I mean. 
yeah I remember who you are. 
 
the water song 
 
water came springing out the side of the wall, 
and I guess the same thing will happen to us all. 
we don't know how to explain what I mean, 
I mean to say it's kind of hard to explain. now, 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
water came down through the cracks in the ceiling, 
but this time the water had a different feeling. 
it's the sort of feeling that is hard to explain, 
so, let me put it to you in a different way. now, 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
you're the salesman. I'm the buyer. 
you're the tractor. I am the tire. 
I'm the glass. you're the water that fills me. 
I hear them coming. now, 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. now, 
let them kill me. yeah! 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
let them kill me. 
 
going to spain 
 
it's heaven up here, 
but it's heaven down there! 
and you're gonna leave me. 
now I don't care. 
it's heaven outside, 
but it's heaven indoors. 
well, go on and leave me. 
I don't care any more. 
I hear the airplane coming! 
I hear the airplane coming! 
I hear the airplane coming, now, 
it can't touch me. 
I see you going up the little stair. 
go on and board the plane, 
I don't care. I, 
I see you hold his hand. 
I see you wave good-bye. 
I don't know you anymore, 
so I'm not going to cry, now, 
I see the airplane coming! 
I feel the airplane coming! 
I hear the airplane coming, now, 
it can't touch me. 
 
keep it on your mind* 
 
[spoken:] it's a quarter till 2 on the 23rd of february 
and this is a hank williams song. 
now if you stay out, 
and start playing around, 
your baby's gonna burn your playhouse down, 
you better keep it on your mind. 
you better keep it on your mind. 
you'll be a-moanin' and a-groanin'! 
lord, you better keep it on your mind. 
now wrong is wrong, 
and right is right. 
if you make a pig mad, 
he's sure gonna bite. 
you better keep it on your mind. 
you better keep it on your mind. 
I've had it proven to me. 
lord, you better keep it on your mind. 
every fuss got the same old end, 
I don't believe the good lord 
meant for a man to win. 
you better keep it on your mind. 
you better keep it on your mind. 
you'll be a-groanin' and a-hoppin'! 
lord, you better keep it on your mind. 
now if she gets mad, 
and tells you goodbye. 
there's not a thing that you can do, 
but sit at home and cry. 
you better keep it on your mind. 
you better keep it on your mind. 
you better call her sweet mamma! 
lord, you better keep it on your mind. 
*is a hank williams song 
lyrics file for Howl!


against agamemnon

red red, red everywhere
bright red all along the thin canvas wall
i stepped outside, for a little air
i stepped outside to get away from it all
i went out to the front, and saw the purple sky
making jokes about my condition
i am going for a walk
i'll be back in half an hour
watch over the children
i'll be back in half an hour
hey hey la la la
hey hey la la la
 
return to the mountain goats...

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for isopanisad radio hour

lyrics file for isapanisad radio hour
abide with me
abide with me
fast falls the eventide
the darkness deepens, lord with me abide
when other helpers fail, and comforts flee
help of the helpless, lord abide with me
swift to its close
ebbs out life's little day
earth's joys grow dim
its glories pass away
change and decay in all around i see
o thou who changest not,
abide with me.
born ready
[spoken:] c'mon william
i'm going to see you in san jose.
i'm going to see you in san jose.
and i'm going to take you out for good.
i'm going to take you down.
i'm headed up the 101 right now.
i'm headed up the 101 right now.
and there's snow on the ground in ohio today.
there's no snow here.
the sun is in my eyes.
yeah the sun is in my eyes.
when i think about you, i feel so bad.
it's been a long, long, long, long time.
cobscook bay
we're alone most of the time these days.
jill used to come by, but she went away.
and gail used to come around and trash the joint,
but she moved off to dana point.
and you went along, just for the ride,
and you both committed suicide.
and day is breaking over cobscook bay.
and i've never seen anything like it in my life.
cow gave brith and her calves are snow white
the huddle up close together at night.
and the mamma cow leans down and cleans her young.
licking their faces with her tongue, 
and unmarked airplanes buzz the air.
and you're falling off that cliff somewhere in california --
which i've never seen.
i put the pieces all together, but i don't know what they mean,
and day is breaking over cobscook bay.
and i've never seen anything like it in my life.
dutch orchestra blues
somewhere in secret, the dutch orchestra's playing.
somewhere in secret, the dutch orchestra's playing.
real nice.
real nice.
and they play so quiet, you can hear the passing traffic.
they play so quiet, you can hear the passing traffic.
and the cars buzz by, and the wind blows.
and i may walk past/fast?, and i may not.
and someone may notice, or it may all slide right by.
and you may love me, or you may not love me at all anymore.
but the sun will shine on holland in the spring.
and god will watch over the members of the orchestra for me
with all his available energies.
yeah yeah.
pseudothyrum song
why do you treat me this way?
and why do you try so hard to break my spirit?
i think someone was mean to you when you were little,
that's what i think.
i think someone was mean to you.
why do you cling to such petty points of contention?
and why don't you allow me one or two small victories now and then?
i think someone was mean to you when you didn't deserve it,
that's what i think.
i think someone was mean to you.
but i, i am not that guy.
can you get that straight?
i am a completely different person
from the one you have in mind.
why do you stand by the things you say long after
you don't mean to hurt anybody anymore?
i think someone was mean to you
for a long, long time, that's what i think.
i think someone was mean to you.
the last limit of bhakti
let me serve you with my mind.
let me serve you with my mind.
let me leave this grieving sand and sky far behind.
let me serve you with my tongue.
let me serve you with my tongue.
let me say your name all day 'til my mouth goes numb.
when the sun comes up, open up the blind.
let me hear the machines grate gears, squeal and grind, yeah.
let me serve you 'til it's over.
let me serve you 'til it's all over.
when the world is giving your secrets all away, 
let me give you cover.
let me serve you with my body.
let me serve you with my body.
let me fight now until the end of time, 
the last limit.
yeah, yeah.
lyrics file for jack & faye
lyrics file for jack & faye

adair
i got my eye on the scar
it runs clear from your temple to your jawline
you'll tell me about all your thoughts right this minute
then I will tell you mine.
'cause i got the wind in my hair
and I'm far away from where i used to be
but i got all my attention fixed on you
and you're flashing that smile at me.
with the midwestern sky burning above us
we lean up against the car
i want to tell you what the sky has done to me
i want you to tell me who we are
'cause i see you raising the water to your lips
it's the blazing dead center of july
and i got all my hopes hung on one gorgeous promise
and you got the sunlight dancing on your eyes
and i got the wind in my hair
and i'm far away from where i used to be
but i got all my attention fixed on you
and you're just where you said you'd be
just where you said you'd be
raid on entebbe
on the shores of a lake named after a late queen of england
i heard new rumors of war.
the sun was a red ball up in the summer sky.
i saw my sister standing in the doorway.
she had that look on her face that reminded me of you.
the reports were coming hourly and the sky was blue.
they were shifting the power again.
they always do this when i come home.
i tucked my shirt in, though i don't know why.
shielded my eyes from the light up in the sky
'cause it was shining, blazing, like a highway flare
in the incredibly impossibly dry air
i heard my mother call my sister to the kitchen again
and thought that everything was headed straight down the drain
they positioned themselves in strategic locations
i was beginning to lose my patience.
if you'll just put your hand in mine,
we're gonna leave all our troubles behind.
an inscription at salonae
there was guy up on the hill,
with a trumpet to his lips,
i mean to tell you he knew how to blow that thing.
there were women dressed in purple,
banging on their tamborines,
and hammering on cymbals (symbols?).
it was not that long ago
when we gathered in the valley below
i loved you more than i loved my own life
i was falling to pieces.
there was a young man on the altar
you saw me poised above him
i saw you watching me.
there were singers, there were dancers
there was glittering gold
spring breaking out gradually.
it was not that long ago
but the memory's kinda dying out 'cha know
like a flower caught in the overgrowth,
falling, falling to pieces.
 there will always be an ireland
cold northern wind
your young arm
against my face
soft and warm
there will always be an ireland.
there will always be an ireland.
silent hour
worthless words
view of some foreign city from the high window
strange black birds
there will always be an ireland.
there will always be an ireland.
what we did
the things we said
your hand resting
on my head
there will always be an ireland.
there will always be an ireland.
there will always be an ireland.
there will always be an ireland.

lyrics file for on juhu beach
lyrics file for on juhu beach

hotel road
thirty story hotel overlooking the sea
friends on either arm supporting me
it's hard to walk now
but i will go down somehow
i'm going down the old road
i'm going down the old road
children kick a soccer ball around in the street
kalpadruma trees are melting in the heat
it's hard to walk here
where the waves shine so clear
i'm going down the old road
i'm going down down the old road
above the swollen ocean the burning yellow sun
hits the hotel's mylar windoows catching every one
it's hard to say why
i should come here to die.
i'm going down the old road.
i'm going down the old road.
bad waves
beachfront hotel, twenty dollars a night
nineteen seventy-two, sun yellow and bright
too exhausted to think or to talk
young boys from bangledesh breakdancing on the sidewalk
and the waves will tear them all to pieces
the waves will tear them all to pieces.
twinkling waterford crystal in the banquet hall
childlike religious paintings lining the wall
i will try to gather my strength
and i will rest up all week
all i can say to them now 
when i open my mouth to speak
is that the waves will tear us all to pieces
the waves will tear us all to pieces.
transjordanian blues
this church is rotten from the top down.
this church is rotten from the top down.
but i, i am going to clean house tonight.
and it's going to go back into the earth it rose from.
these walls can't keep the world at bay.
no, these walls can't keep the world at bay.
our time, our time is limited and precious.
but this place, this place is limitless and pernicious.
would you all just follow me out into the open?
leave your coats and handbags, damn it all.
can't you see the floors are smoking?
this church is not long for this world.
this church is not long for this world.
and if you're wondering who to blame,
i want to praise his name with songs and feasting.
follow me to the open field
where the truth will be revealed if you're really listening.
hosannah, hosannah, i am saved by the blood of the lamb.
one day when i was lost, he died on that cross,
and i am saved by the blood of the lamb.
burned my tongue
woke up this morning about a quarter to five
said the prayer you'd taught me to keep myself alive,
it burned my tongue.
it burned my tongue.
fried some grains in butter, 
said a simple grace,
sat down at the table,
fed my greedy face.
it burned my tongue.
it burned my tongue.
looked out at the ocean
i could see it so clear.
said the only name
i can ever stand to hear.
it burned my tongue
it burned my tongue.
when i ask you to sing with me
i wish you'd sing along.
thirty years in this world -- 
thirty years too long.
it burns my tongue.
it burns my tongue.
you tooks away my friends.
you took my will to live.
i gave you all i got.
what more have i got to give?
it burns my tongue.
it burns my tongue.
it burns my tongue.
it burns my tongue.
world cylinder
dont like going to the doctor.
i don't like looking at the mirror.
i like looking out the window,
watching the waves break.
do i have to hit you over the head with it?
do i have to hit you over the head with it?
tired of talking to the suckers,
i'm tired of talking to the wealthy.
i want to talk to men and women
who haven't got anything left.
do i have to hit you over the head with it?
do i have to hit you over the head with it?
carry me down to the water
where i used to play when i was five.
let me go, let me go down to the water.
don't bring me back alive.
do i have to hit you over the head with it?
do i have to hit you over the head with it?

lyrics file for nothing for juice

then the letting go
down in the south bronx
down home
saw you walking down the street again 
saw you looking sweet again
i saw you coming through
i turned my head away from you
why do you come here
why do you come around 
why'd you go home
why'd you head on home to rockaway? (rock away)?

heights
when the seashells crumbled in your hand
you looked up up at me
and the sand shifting underneath your feet
softened for you and incredibly the sun went through from the sky
and i was certain i was going to cry
but then you reached up and you reached out
we'd been staring at the water all day
and then you touched me you were golden
you were giving the game away
when the sand crabs ran across your face
you didn't even twitch
and a soft scent came across the water
impossibly rich
impossibly cold
we were just nineteen years old
but then you reached up and you reached out
we'd been staring at the water all day
and then you touched me you were golden
you were giving the game away

alpha double negative: going to catalina
i hear you starting up again
i seee you standing on the deck
i hear your voice start to carry
i see the veins throbbing in you neck
and i know what you're saying
and i know what you're saying it for
but i'm not listening
i'm not listening anymore
and i see you come toward me
i see the sun withdrew from the sky
i hear your voice getting stronger and louder
and i see a stranger in your eyes
and i know what you're saying
and i know what you're saying it for
but i'm not listening
i'm not listening anymore

hellhound on my trail
gotta keep moving
gotta keep moving
blues falling down like hail
gotta keep moving
blues falling down like hail
and the daylight keeps moving
there's a hellhound on my trail
if today was christmas eve
and tommorow were christmas day
if today was christmas eve
and tommorow were christmas day
all i would need is my little rider
and the world would fade away
gotta keep moving
gotta keep moving
blues falling down like hail
gotta keep moving
blues falling down like hail
and the daylight keeps ta worryin' me 
there's a hellhound on my trail

blueberry frost
when you saw the evening star 
shining in the freezing sky
i saw somthing dark and silent passing by
full moon
deep grass
cold water
when you said your name out loud
something broke inside me
nothing new to take ahold of
no new world to hide me
full moon
deep grass
cold water
full moon
deep grass
cold water

alabama nova
B          Amaj9 E
your house is depressing
B          Amaj9 E
your house is dirty
B          Amaj9      E
why don't you come outside a little while
B          Amaj9       E
why don't you step out into the sun
       B    A   E
let me take you down
       B    A   E
let me ease you around montgomery
and out there on the front porch
your hair shines in the sun
and i can see the sun gathering on your eyes
what the hell are you looking at
let me take you down
let me ease you around montgomery

moon and sand     
deep is the midnight sea
warm is the fragrant night
sweet are you lips to me
soft as the moon and sand
oh when shall we meet agin
when the night has left us 
will the spell remain
the waves invade the shore
though we may kiss no more
night is at our command
moon and sand
the waves invade the shore
though we may kiss no more
night is at our command
moon and sand

i will grab you by the ears
the wind blew in across the water
and the wind blew through you hair
and i walked around the lake's perimeter
and then i saw you there
i will grab you by the ears 
i will grab you by the ears 
i will grab you by the ears 
and you will know something
you will know something
i saw the birds fly out across the lake
i saw the birds go by
and i walked around the lake's perimeter
and i saw the lake reflected in your eyes
i will grab you by the ears 
i will grab you by the ears 
i will grab you by the ears 
and you will know something
you will know something

it froze me
i saw you in the blazing light
when the lotus caught fire
in the middle of the night
it froze me
it froze me
i saw you coming closer real slow
you grabbed hold
i let go
yeah i saw you in the blazing light
i saw you 
i saw you alright
it froze me
it froze me
it froze me
it froze me

full flower
i saw the ceiling spin.
and i saw the room shift.
and i watched the television flicker.
and i let my mind drift.
i would give anything in the world up for you,
but i will not stop.
i saw the blossom form.
and i saw the screen glow.
and i let my arm fall to my side.
and i took one step back.
i would give anything in the world up for you,
but i will not stop.

million
when i came back from finland
the taxi took me down the street 
i saw the red flowers growing like they used to by the roadside
in the smothering summer heat
you were standing out in front of the house
with your floral print dress on
and you had questions only a masochist would ask 
writen all over your big brown eyes
the moon is high over iowa at night 
the moon is high over iowa at night 
and i brought your a blanket
hand woven, hand dyed
the moon is high over iowa at night

going to bogat&#225;
i know what i want
and i know what we need
when the first fruits of the harvest 
begin to blacken and bleed 
and the purple fruit gives way when you press it 
even so slightly
and through the thatches behind the green leaves
we heard the fire-eyed mccaw sing as evil as you please
his little song
is a very pretty song
but its something i won't stand for
and as the sun rises over columbia
i know we're done for
when the holes started forming in the tent
and you wondered out loud where the sunlight went
i had a mind to tell you
but i didn't want to hurt you
and if i knew how to form the words
i would ask you what you'd come for
but as the sun rises over columbia
i know we're done for
yeah as the sun rises over columbia
i know we're done for
as the sun rises over columbia
i know we're done for

orange ball of pain
when i saw it on the bakery carousel 
i knew i had to have it for my own
i eased it out
and i brought it home
why don't you try some
i already had some myself
is that the most delicious thing 
you ever tasted in your life
is that the most delicious thing 
you ever tasted in your life
and then the cold sorrow gripped me by the throat
and then i felt the colder sadness taking hold
i knew i had to have it for my own
why don't you try some
why don't you try some
is that the most delicious thing 
you ever tasted in your life
is that the most delicious thing 
you ever tasted in your life
and then i saw the snow against the window
and then i saw the snow hit the window
and then i saw the snow brush against the window
and then i saw the snow in here

going to kansas
you were all dressed in green
clouds bounced against the edges of the sky
you had the prettiest hair i'd ever seen
we watched the world passing by
there was an ocean's droning
though we were nowhere near the shore
we heard each other giggling and moaning
then we couldn't hear each other anymore
when my head was resting on your breastbone
i could hear your beating heart
and twenty-four hours later
you had left me completely alone
i watched the whole world come apart
and you were all dressed in green
rising in thet sky was an unfamiliar star 
and you know what i mean
i rememeber who you are

waving at you
listen you can tell your lawyer
that he can go to hell
'cause i can take whatever you're offering up reasonably well
and if four long years come to nothing that's alright
'cause it's your birthday
it's your birthday tonight
and i went to buy something
but i caught myself in time
and nothing makes any sense anymore
but everything rhymes
die hard 
die kicking 
old habit of mine
die hard 
die kicking 
old habit of mine
die hard 
die hard
die kicking 

going to reykjavik
i been drinking that coffee you sent me from thailand
i've been watching the lamps burn
i've been listening to the wind chime
i've been waiting my turn
and i'm coming to you
i am coming to you
i am coming to you
and i heated the milk until it boiled
and i drank it down
and i stepped outside 
and i checked my reflection in the rain
there were voices on the wind
winter coming on in
and i made myself up again, brand new
and i am broken and i am tired
and i'm coming to you with my mouth
dripping

i corinthians 13: 8-10
we heard the rats in the rafters scurry by
and we wondered about the color of the sky outside
in warsaw in 1939
it was alright just to be alive
it was good that you were mine
and you held your hands up
to form a heart in the air
you held you hands up with your thumbs touching
they formed a heart in the air
through the peice missing in the brick wall
we had an excellent view of the soldiers coming down the wall
and you held your hands up where i could see them 
in the dark and they formed a heart in the air
you held you hands up
and they formed a heart in the air
i heard the old songs radiating from you
i heard the old songs radiating from you

going to scotland
there was a barn owl trapped in the rafters
the ground underneath us was wet and cold
we heard the owl thrashing about
trying desparately to get out
we stood outside and watched the night unfold
we watched the sun go down on scotland
and i watched the moon come up over you
when a pack of dogs went silently past us
we knew we'd been given fair warning
but that was the only thing we knew
and you threw all your luggage out onto the water
and i tore the shirt away from my back
the cold came on with a new found intensity 
and you pressed your warm body against me
and i loved you so much it was making me sick
and we watched the sun go down on scotland
we were glad that we'd left oklahoma behind
i took your hips in my hands and i threw you down
to the new found rich brown deep wet ground
had a vision of you burning on my mind
we watched the sun go down on scotland
and i watched the moon come up over you
when a pack of dogs went silently past us
we knew we'd been given fair warning
but that was the only thing we knew
kspc: the basement tapes 
 
lyrics file for kspc: the basmenet tapes 
 
the anglo-saxons 
 
john: "we'd like to dedicate this song to our friends, the former 
inhabitants of the british isles!" 
they used to paint their bodies blue 
a couple of them might be distantly related to you. 
according to ceasar they shaved their entire bodies, 
except for the upper lip and the head 
yeah, the anglo-saxons 
yeah, the anglo-saxons 
a sub-literate bunch of guys, 
though some sources say otherwise. 
yeah, the anglo-saxons 
yeah, they were men on a mission, 
preserving their poetry by oral tradition 
yeah, oral tradition is all you get 
until saint augustine brought in the alphabet. 
yeah, the anglo-saxons 
yeah, the anglo-saxons, 
in 1065 they were ragin' 
but 1066 brought the norman invasion. 
yeah, the anglo-saxons 
go! 
thanks go out to joey meyer for transcribing this 
 
 
please mail any questions/comments/complaints, or just notes 
hello to:nall@themountaingoats.net 
lyrics file for like a version volume 2

wild world
originally performed by the birthday party
hold me up baby, for i may fall.
hold my dishrag body tall.
our bodies melt together, we are one.
post-crucifiction, baby
post-crucifiction and all undone.
it's a wild world.
it's a wild world.
la la la la la la la la la
it's a wild world.
hey!
it's a wild world.
church bells ring out the toll of our night.
falling forever forward, forever backward, forever forward, alright.
strophe and antistrophe
strophe and antistrophe hey!
antistrophe c'mon and kiss me tight.
it's a wild world, 
a wild world way up here in your arms tonight.
it's a wild world.
it's a wild world.
it's a wild world.
it's a wild world.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for martial arts weekend

lyrics file for martial arts weekend
baltimore
1, 2. 1, 2, 3, 4.
when i walked past the chain link fence
and the guard dog came forward to attack me
i knew you were coming home.
i knew you were on your way back.
well in baltimore, you will find what you've been waiting for.
in baltimore, you will find what you've been waiting for.
just beyond the last of the sidewalk, where the beach begins
i heard the airplanes announcing the apocalypse
saw the 737's coming on in.
will you hold on for just a minute?
will you hold on while i catch my breath?
listen, in baltimore, you'll uncover what you're digging for.
in baltimore, ah, you will find what you've been waiting for.
all rooms cable a/c free coffee
wine and honey, lipstick and spit,
you coming through the door with a cigarette lit.
and i'm not supposed to think your death wish is cool,
but then i see you knocking back tequilas by the pool.
and i am the yellow rose, growing near the ground,
waiting to climb something.
sweat and water, muscle and blood,
hints about as subtle as a flashflood.
sky over california all pink and white,
something's gonna happen somewhere tonight.
i am the yellow rose, growing near the ground,
waiting to climb something.
thunder, lightning, hot rain.
sweet smell of rotten grain.
holy basil, wolf's bane.
crows tapping on the windowpane.
i am a yellow, yellow rose, growing near the ground,
waiting to climb something.
ultraviolet
down on the gulf coast, where they rock 'n' roll,
i leaned a little while up against a barber poll.
stood there like that 'til the sun went down.
lost a quart of blood since tuesday.
light in the doorways,
light up the streets of this town.
ultraviolet.
ultraviolet.
and when they cut loose, you gotta stand back.
you gotta reinforce the places that they're likely to attack.
i spent the whole week down at st. vincent de paul,
wholly immersed in prayer and
ultraviolet.
ultraviolet.
down where the river rushes into the sea,
i didn't let 'em get the best of me.
i didn't let 'em take the very best part --
the last lone bit of light left flickering in my heart.
ultraviolet.
ultraviolet.
twelve hands high (was:fit alpha vi)
I know you never asked for my opinion,
but I'd say that horse is crazy.
I know what I think doesn't matter any more,
but I'd say his mind is gone.
and I know you know what I know,
even though you'd rather die than say it.
I know you feel the same way,
or you wouldn't be sleeping on the lawn.
I heard the hooves crack the window,
saw the body come through,
saw the big brown eyes flashing.
I fell all over you.
I got pressure bearing down on me.
There was a reason why I came here,
but I guess now it doesn't matter.
I had a good, good, good, good reason,
but I guess now you couldn't care.
There is a certain kind of feeling that you get
when you're totally helpless.
and there's a different world waiting for me
when I lift my head up from your thick, dark hair.
I heard the hooves crack the window,
saw the body come through,
saw the big nostrils flaring.
I fell all over you.
I got pressure bearing down on me.
I heard the hooves crack the window,
saw the body come through,
saw the big brown eyes flashing.
I fell all over you.
I got pressure bearing down on me.
the river song
the little river is blue and long.
i sat by the side of it as everything went wrong.
i got a letter from the dry city's heart.
you say the water distribution system's come all apart.
and my place here's threatened,
but i had it in my mind.
and your face was on the skyline, so sweet and so kind.
let them come, let 'em all come down.
let them take a good long look around.
let them see if my rivers won't suit them.
let them drown.
the fish that swim there in the current
with their machine-like faces should be no deterrant.
they'll all come toward me 
but i won't move.
i know where i stand, i have nothing to prove.
because i had it in my heart that you were walking by
and the little river's waters became our separate skies
so let them come, let 'em all come down.
let them take a good long look around.
let them see if my rivers won't suit them.
let them drown.
because i had it in my heart that you were walking by
and the whole world dissolved leaving only you and i.
so let them come, let 'em all come down.
let them take a good long look around.
let them see if my rivers won't suit them.
let them drown.
somebody else's parking lot in sebastopol (was:somebody else's parking lot in santa cruz)
outside the opera house in sydney,
i saw my life come crashing to its end.
i cried out to the scale-tipper
on whom all living things depend.
strings of giseppe verde suffuse the evening air.
i wished, i wished, i wished that god would kill me,
instead of leaving me alone to see you standing there
before me. that sad look on your face.
you took me to so many places i never thought i'd go.
this is the worst place.
yeah we did our manners proud
on the night we said goodbye.
no big scene out there on the sidewalk,
as we pinpointed the place where all good things go to die.
i know you hate it when i get my headaches.
well, i've got a real prize tonight.
listening to ????,
it's not going to be alright.
and i'd like to think that this will pass, this will pass.
i know it's not the case.
of all the highs and lows and middle-ends you brought me to,
this is the worst place.
memories
this is a leonard cohen song
frankie lane, he was singing jezebel.
i pinned an iron cross to my lapel.
i walked up to the tallest and the blondest girl.
i said, look, you don't know me now but very soon you will.
so won't you let me see,
i said "won't you let me see",
i said "won't you let me see
your naked body?"
just dance me to the dark side of the gym.
chances are i'll let you do most anything.
she said i know you're hungry, i can hear it in your voice.
and there are many parts of me to touch, you have your choice.
but no you cannot see,
she said "no you cannot see",
she said "no you cannot see
my naked body."
so we're dancing close, the band is playing stardust.
balloons and paper streamers floating down on us.
she said, you've got a minute left to fall in love.
in solemn moments such as this i have put my trust.
and all my faith to see,
i said "all my faith to see",
i said "all my faith to see,
her naked body."
going to morocco
there's no wolves around here.
there's no wolves around here.
have a drink.
drink your fill.
from the tap. 
from the still.
if you won't, i will.
but there are no wolves around here.
there's no reason to cry.
there's no reason to cry.
you can have a seat for a while.
relax.
smile.
but don't touch that dial,
'cause there is no reason to cry.
there's a gutteral stop in my throat.
there's a gutteral stop in my throat.
the wind comes in from far and wide.
sands blow.
grains collide.
i'm changing inside.
and there's a gutteral stop in my throat.
going to michigan
as the car rolled north towards michigan you complained
that all i like to listen to is gary neuman and the tubeway army
well maybe that's true
but what about you
and the blue cheer comprehensive retrospective box set
that's pretty annoying too.
the wing window flew open.
the air was thin.
i heard you say so and i heard
shadings of meaning again
and your fingers touched mine
and that supersonic whine began
near the back of my head
and the white rose burned.
you know exactly what i mean about the burning white rose
yes you do
yes you do
terminal grain
well the train touched down in souix city, iowa.
the train touched down in souix city, iowa.
it fell cleanly from the dark sky under the track
saw you from the window there was no turning back.
well, the whistle went off. i was leaning up against the window.
yeah the whistle went off. i was leaning up against the window.
i saw the blue passengers walking past me
and you called up the calvary.
it was so easy, and it was so hard,
you were clutching your copy of kirkegaard.
repetition.
repetition.
malevolent seascape Y (was:ambivalent seascape Y)
we saw the ship meet the horizon.
we saw it carry him away.
and the streamers on the hull were the last things to wink out of existance
as a cool breeze came in from across the bay.
you dug around in the sand.
you came up holding something.
and when you handed it over with that smile on your face,
i knew the three of us meant less than nothing.
i held the seashell next to my ear, but i didn't hear anything.
i held the seashell next to my ear, but i didn't hear anything.
the dogfish swam beneath the jetty.
where our legs hung down.
and the ocean hugged the sun with her long arms
as the lights came up above chinatown.
i guess this makes it all easier.
i guess it's smooth sailing now.
i guess this irons out all the wrinkles from the fabric.
i guess it never really mattered anyhow.
i held the seashell next to my ear, but i didn't hear anything.
i held the seashell next to my ear, but i didn't hear anything.
 going to marrakesh 
the fog is lifting from the water.
the bells are sounding on the boats.
and our love is a monster plain and simple.
though you weight it down with stones to try to drown it,
it floats.
it floats.
the day of reckoning is coming
faster than anyone here realizes.
and our love is like jesus, but worse.
though you seal the cave up where you've lain its body,
it rises.
it rises.
i keep waiting for our love to die.
the machines by its bed dim and flicker, but it won't stay dead.
and it perks up when the nurses bring its medication by.
i wish our love could go the way of all flesh.
but it's not right, and its not nice
to try and kill the same thing twice.
would you pack your things?
we are going to marrakesh.


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for satanic messiah

satanic messiah 
I saw the posters popping up around the city
pale blue and washed out red
I went down to the arena pushing through
hoping I'd run into you
sweet freshly scrubbed smell of the crowd
all the excitement in their eyes
we were all made young when he stepped onto the stage
like an animal escaping from his cage
raise the trumpet
sound the drum
he whom the prophet spoke of long ago has come
all of us too dazed to leave when it was over
dawdled by the vendors for a minute
gathered underneath a summer sky
I was hoping you'd pass by
but thought I didn't see you that day or the next
I'm pretty sure that you were there
making your way among the young and happy hoard
headed down to your reward
raise the trumpet
sound the drum
he whom the prophet spoke of long ago has come
thanks to missy mazzaferro for transcribing this
 wizard buys a hat 
shuffled up 6th street in the rain
kept my head down as I looked past the people
and in the dept store 
I found what I was looking for
this is the church.
this is the crucible.
they come out to Broadway and they look for me
I'm on the red steps smoking a cigarette
easy to recognize black bandages on my eyes
this is the church.
these are the congregants.
sun sets on the broad square and lights come up
feel like this town's gonna put a quick end to me
but if I came here to drown
I'm gonna take a few people down.
this is the church
occupied by the enemy. 
thanks to missy mazzaferro for transcribing this
 sarcofago live 
we were hungry.
there was no food.
we were restless.
there were too many things to do
so we gathered in a concrete room,
eyes up at you.
and in a small room in brazil
we were waiting
and in a small room in brazil
we were waiting
we were howling like dogs.
we were feeling the full brunt of the age.
guys from our neighborhood looking down at us
all of you all of you
rage, rage, rage
and in a small room in brazil
we were waiting
and in a small room in brazil
we were waiting
thanks to missy mazzaferro for transcribing this
 gojam province 1968 
running like a band of angry schoolboys
up and down the well lit streets today
bashing in the heads of tax collectors
and anybody else who's in our way
bathing in the sunlight that's our birthright
waiting for someone to set the scene
last time he came to town a few stray coins came raining down
we scrambled in the dirt for them like ants around the queen
we take aim for the dawning day
and we shoot
starving to death 
starving to death for the low hanging fruit
then all at once here comes the motorcade
slow and steady down the beaten track
and as we're bashing out the windows of the limo
we notice there's nobody in the back
and the helicopter lands atop the palace
the royal guard assembles at the gate
the country's gonna burn and we'll still have to wait our turn
last among contenders of the super-featherweights
we take aim at the dawning day
and we shoot
starving to death 
starving to death for the low hanging fruit
thanks to missy mazzaferro for transcribing this

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for down in a mirror

white box
well I did it now
oh I did it now
the box said do not open under pain of death
it had my initials there where
I signed my initials there on it
on that white box
I saw initials there
do not open under pain of death
but I opened anyway
I died anyway
I died anyway
so I come back to stay
come back to stay
lord knows I love you anyway
I love you anyway

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for object lessons: songs about products


golden boy

spoken:
hello there, paul. I had a take and I listened to it and I was ready
to send it, and I thought, you know? it can be done better. So here it
is then. Now I'm wearing my boots, which always guarantees a good
showing.
you must try to lead a good life
you must do unto others as you would have them do
so that when you die you'll find golden boy peanuts waiting in the
afterlife for you
there are no pan asian supermarkets down in hell
so you can't buy golden boy peanuts
there are no pan asian supermarkets down in hell
so you can't buy golden boy peanuts
if thine enemy oppresseth you
you must let him oppress you some more
so that when you go shopping in paradise
you'll find those magnificent peanuts from singapore
with the drawing of the young chinese farmer
the eastern sun behind him smiling at you from the shelves
if we want to spend eternity in happiness
well we're gonna have watch ourselves
you must give to the march of dimes
you must be on guard against wickedness at all times
and you'll find that your efforts have brought you great joy
when your spirit is munching on that golden boy
there are no pan asian supermarkets down in hell
so you can't buy golden boy peanuts there
but the streets of heaven are lined with shelves
and there's billboards of the golden boy everywhere
there are no pan asian supermarkets down in hell
so you can't buy golden boy peanuts
there are no pan asian supermarkets down in hell
so you can't buy golden boy peanuts... GO!
thanks to james corrigall for these...

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nallthemountaingoats.net">nallthemountaingoats.net
lyrics file for orange raja


blood royal

i remembered you.
i remembered where you'd come from.
i remembered you.
i remembered where you've gone.
in the shifting neon air,
saw the colors of the revolution everywhere
blood royal.
i remembered you.
i remembered all the things you said.
i remembered the shape of your face.
i let the thought go to my head.
in the iron blue dawn,
i felt power coming on.
blood royal.


the only thing i know

when you came back from trenton,
all the sparkle was gone.
and you stood in the shadow
and the curtains were drawn
and i know you're lying.
and you know you're lying too.
that is just about the only thing i know about you.
when you pocketed your eyeshadow
and you picked up the phone,
stepped out on the balcony
and drank in the drone.
and i know you're leaving.
and you know you're leaving too.
that is just about the only thing i know about you.
when you stop on the sidewalk
and you looked up above you,
warm wet air came down to shelter me.
how much do i love you?
well you know you're dying.
and i know you're dying too.
that is just about the only thing i know about you.


raja vocative

a bird you would've liked brought the sky down,
but it was useless to see it without you around.
and in the unstoppable camera of my mind's eye,
i saw you and some foreign guy.
and i could hear you voice ringing.
and i could hear you singing.
from all the way across the country in palm springs,
i can hear you now.
your laughter tore through the new jersey night,
and i can't stand it, but i'm alright.
stood out on the balcony and i took a look around
and a bird you would've loved the sight of
brought the sky down.
and i can hear you voice ringing.
and i can hear you singing.
from all the way across the country in palm springs,
i can hear you now.


hatha hill

as the sun went away,
you were sending out signals.
you had sugar on you stomach
you had sugar on your hair.
you had sugar underneath you eyes.
you had sugar on your mouth.
i know that trick too.
i know what i means, coming from you.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for abridged perversion / pawnshop reverb


the window song

a knocking sound it woke me up,
but my legs were feeling weak.
i stared up at the ceiling and i saw you at the window.
but my mouth wouldn't let me speak.
chorus:
i know you.
you're the one i spent three seasons trying to pretend
that i never knew.
something pulled me off the bed.
and the same thing moved the muscles in my legs.
i moved towards you voice, and my body got so light,
i could've walked on eggs right then and not broken a one of them.
(chorus)x4

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for songs for peter hughes


short song about the 10 freeway

evening came on like a big red wing
and the dying sun, split his colors on everything,
and as the night came on, you burst into song
and you scraped your car up against the guardrail
and god is present in the sweeping gesture
but the devil is in the details


No, I Can't.

1, 2, 3, 4
you bought me some chocolates.
and you bought me a rose.
and you brought me a paper bag.
and you brought me a lamp.
thank you for the chocolates.
thank you for the rose.
thank you for the paperbag.
thank you for the lamp.
(now i have everything i need.) x4
you brought me a sofa.
and you brought me some books.
and you brought me a filing cabinet.
and you brought me a panasonic dx4500.
thank you for the sofa.
thank you for the books.
thanks for the filing cabinet.
i don't know what i..
i don't know what i.. ever did without it.
(now i have everything i need.) x4
you came by. and you came in.
and you let the wind in.
it must be cold outside.
we stared out, through the sliding glass door.
but i'd forgotten what we were looking for.
thank you for coming by.
it's nice to see you once in a while.
thanks for the coat i forgot to mention.
i've been freezing in here.
i've been freezing in here.
(now i have everything i need.) x4
yeah!


song for dana plato

the 3 month ride sticks in your mind
as though the insides of your head were a big screen.
and coming in on a evening wind.
it's the unmistakable scent of brilliantine.
what kind of memory serves, what kind of world is it,
that comes headlong at you, then swerves at the last possible second?
it's this one. it's this one.
and it's easy to slow down.
and it's easy to slow down.
and it's easy to just lie out by the blue pools
in the squinting sun and slow down.
and it's easy to slow down.
and in situations like these, it's sometimes useful to
think of life as one long continuous evening
that never turns into night.
hey hey!


the sign

[john spoken] i never get tired of this one...
i've got a new life
you would hardly recognize me.
i'm so glad.
how could a person like me care for you?
why should i bother when you're not the one?
i saw the sign
and it opened up my eyes i saw the sign.
love is demanding without understanding
yeah i saw the sign and it opened up my eyes i saw the sign
and noone's gonna drag you up.
under the pale moon,
for so many years i've wondered who you are.
how could a person like you bring me joy?
under the pale moon where i see a lot of stars.
i saw the sign
and it opened up my eyes i saw the sign.
love is demanding without understanding
yeah i saw the sign and it opened up my eyes i saw the sign
and noone's gonna drag you up
to get into the light where you belong.
i saw the sign
and it opened up my eyes i saw the sign.
love is demanding without understanding
yeah i saw the sign and it opened up my eyes i saw the sign
and noone's gonna drag you up
hey!

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for phylira


third snow song

in january i took a short walk
down to the broadway bridge
two and a half blocks
when you scrape the ice away
you can read the bridge dedication
i can feel the cold air coming in through my teeth
i saw the bridge
i saw the water underneath
that's a whole lotta water
that's a whole lotta water
i took out the key that i'd forgotten the function of
twisted it from the keyring as the bridge loomed above
i hammered it against the ice
i hammered it against the ice


the monkey song

cool air falls through the venetian blinds and
the planets in the heavens are perfectly aligned
i take in my surroundings
i memorize them all
the scuff marks on the stone floor,
the powder burns on the eastern wall
there's a monkey in the basement
how did the monkey get there?
there's a monkey in the basement
where did the monkey come from?
where did the monkey come from?
where did the monkey come from?
the animal noises you used to make
the andalusian coral snake
all hail when standing beside this room
and the heavy hot rains and the sonic boom
there's a monkey in the basement
where did the monkey come from?
there's a monkey in the basement
how did the monkey get there?
how did the monkey get there?
how did the monkey get there?


love cuts the strings
you can find out how to play this song here 

the first thing that happened was the river overflowed
the water running through the streets and was sweet and cold
i knelt by the water like a doe by a stream
punch-drunk, snowblind, as though the whole thing were a bad dream
and then love pulled out the heavy artillery
kypris took the horses by the bit for the morning ride
i count my blessings, but you can only be expected to count so high
when love cuts the strings
i smeared myself with pennyroyal to keep the hounds at bay
you poked your head out of an alley half a block away
and i recognized you, though i'm not sure how
and the air turned red around you
as a dull chill came down over me
and then love summoned up the infantry
and the green-eyed goddess got ready for all out war
and i'd count my blessings,
but i don't even know what the word blessing means
when love cuts the strings
yeah!


pure honey

i had a thousand good questions
i was gonna ask you when you finally came by
but now that you're really here
there's only one question that comes to my mind.
and that question being:
what's with all the portuguese water dogs?
i'd like to repeat the question.
what's with all the portuguese water dogs?

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for i present this


the rain song

[john spoken]
...the mountain goats on the umm
well, the um twenty fouth of january - a monday, at about ten
and this is called uh, this is called,
well i don't know what it's called
by the time i write it down, the title is on the tape
and then i'll know what it's called
the rain came down
soaked the old habachi
and i wish i could sing, like allen callaci
and then you would know
how sad it was, when the rain came down
drop by drop
gallon by gallon
brother if i could sing,
if i could sing like allen
you would know
and understand how sad it was when the rain came down

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
 
lyrics file for in release city 

black molly 
black mollies in the aquarium, 
darting back and forth as though an earthquake were certain 
and I, turned up the heater 
and I ripped off my shirt 
and I grabbed hold of my stereo 
and I threw it out the window 
you were in town again 
you'd come around again 
you were dragging me down again with you 
siamese fish flashing like sparklers 
it started to rain 
and the telephone rang a couple of times 
I put a bullet through its cold dead brain 
and I got out my photographs of you 
and I put bullets though all of them too 
you were in town again 
you'd come around again 
you were dragging me down again with you 
yeah 
 
 
if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at  
nall@themountaingoats.net 
lyrics file for let's sail out far... maybe a little too far


please come home to hamngatan

jewel theives, jewel thieves
leave fingerprints on everything
jewel theives, jewel thieves
leave fingerprints on everything
but around here, around here,
we don't dust for fingerprints.
snake oil peddlers, snake oil peddlers,
we can spot 'em half a mile away
snake oil peddlers, 
we can spot 'em half a mile away
but these days, these days,
we drink a lot of snake oil.
adulterers, adulterers,
always give themselves away
adulterers, adulterers,
always give themselves away
but down here, around here
where the moose run wild, 
and you can't think clearly
we let 'em off pretty easy.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
our salvation is in hand lyrics...

our salvation is at hand lyrics


alpha omega -the mountain goats
on the morning you went away
the air was humid and the sky was gray
i had boiled peanuts for breakfast from cairo, georgia
the air was wet, my face was wetter
the pink flowers along the western window made me feel better
i turned the air conditioner on
found the note on scented stationary - you were long gone
i had boiled peanuts for breakfast from cairo, georgia
i popped the top off of the aluminum can
let the brine slide down my fingers, man
it was warm, it was warm on my skin
but i felt the cold blast looming on in
i had boiled peanuts for breakfast from cairo, georgia
thanks go out to andrew lison for transcribing this...
hand ball -the mountain goats
i am the dry meat that fills the mouth
i am the fire that burns without wood
i am evil forest, kill a man on the day that his life seems sweetest to him
i did not come to play hand ball
i did not come to play hand ball
thanks go out to andrew lison for transcribing this...


 
return to our salvation is in hand...

return to the gue...

please mail any questions/comments/complaints, or just notes hello to:<a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for corkscrewed

lyrics file for corkscrewed
flight 717: going to denmark
your bright eyes render all discussion pointless
your bright eyes are gonna kill me for sure
i look at you and i know that the house will come down
because your burning eyes are bright and pure
but there's a room for us in a red brick building
by a bright green field in denmark
i've got a twitch in my leg and it makes me nervous
and i've got fifty cents in my watch pocket
and your name beating march time in my blood
putting pressure on the hollows of my eye sockets
there's a room for us in a red brick building
by a bright green field in a very old country
my mouth is open 
so you can stuff the bright red roses in.
'cause i feel the california sky closing in.
there's a room for us on the third floor of a red brick building
by a green field with a stream running through it in denmark.
yeah!
admonishing song
tell me why.
tell me why.
tell me why you lied.
that was not a nice thing to do.
not a nice thing to do.
it wasn't very nice of you.
not a nice thing to do.
tell me why.
tell me why.
tell me why when you got caught in it you told the same lie.
that was not a nice thing to do.
not a nice thing to do.
it wasn't very nice of you.
not a nice thing to do.
tell me why.
tell me why.
tell me why you made threats against the life of the prime minister of canada.
that was not a nice thing to do.
not a nice thing to do.
it wasn't very nice of you.
not a nice thing to do.

lyrics file for the long secret


duke ellington

the light hit the rings
glimmering on his fingers
the light came down
and his hands hit the keys
it utterly wasted me in sweden
the horns punched the air
the aftermath fell around everywhere
i saw the spotlight land on his rings
and i'd had just about enough losing things
in sweden in nineteen sixty-two
quite some distance from you

process of elimination

in sicily, it's awfully hot
and where we were most decidedly not
so i looked around
i saw heaven coming down
around you
in washington, it's cold as ice
and we were warm in the arms of christ himself
i took a long look at you face
i saw the angel take his place
beside you
there's monsoons
in kashmir
i was worried that you'd dissapear
i touched your arm just to be on the safe side
and the world broke apart and fell off by the wayside
next to you

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for devil in the shortwave
 crows 
well i went way out North Carolina way 
to that old graveyard where my great grandmother lay 
and the day was bright and i hadn't slept all night 
and they sold the place to some guys who were building graduate student housing
no one raised any objections 
they were knocking the headstones down
and the sun was high when i rolled into town
stood by a nameless hole in the ground
the air was sweet and hot
maybe it was the right grave,
maybe not
but the crows crows crows 
rose, rose, rose from the grave
Yeah the crows crows crows 
rose, rose, rose from the grave
 genesis 19:1-2 
the girl who'd been haunting your dreams all your life
the butcher from brooklyn, the butcher's wife
the girl who kissed you in the seventh grade
her and all the others lined up behind the gate
the two angels came to sodom in the evening
when the sun up in the sky was bleeding all over you
and you had your camera
and you had your felt tip
and you had some money 
and you had everything you needed
the two angels came to sodom in the evening
we saw you coming up the boulevard
the two angels came to sodom in the evening
when the sun was bleeding all over you
 yoga 
we had our passports out and the kits to fix 'em up with.
and the hurricane lamp cast our shadows on the ceiling.
i watched 'em box with one another like punch and judy.
it was dangerous and delightful.
it was that kind of feeling
when you said you were sure there was nothing standing in our way.
and the lie ran off and hid itself in the alleys all around bombay.
i saw you knock the lamp over while reaching for the scissors
and i wondered how we'd ever get by without it.
and you fell into my arms, sweet and gentle.
poison in the water.
little doubt about it.
and you said that one of us would be all alone someday.
and the truth of it echoed inexhaustably all across bombay.
la la la.
 dirty old town 
this is an ewan mccoll song
 commandate 
i'm gonna drink more whiskey than brendan behan.
and i'm gonna send my belongings all to tripoli.
and i'm gonna ride home to california
with a banjo on my knee.
i'm never gonna turn off the television.
i'm just gonna let it run all night.
i'm gonna plant root vegetables out in the backyard
and come summer i am going to treat you right.
so put on your chairman mao coat
and let me clear my throat.
let's turn this whole town upside-down
and shake it 'til the coins come falling out of its pockets,
yeah put on your che guevara pin
call the troops on in
we're gonna sail through the night sky like a pair of bottle rockets.
i got a great big secret written down somewhere.
i got a rosary to protect us both from harm.
i got a storage locker full of cow figurines
and a laundry list of grievances longer than my arm.
and i am never going back to cincinatti.
all those bridges have burned down to the ground.
i got the jet pack strapped to my back
and i am waiting for you to come around.
yeah, put on your chairman mao coat
and let me clear my throat.
let's turn this whole place upside-down
and shake it 'til the coins come dropping out of its pockets.
yeah put on your che guevara pin
call the troops on in.
we're gonna sink through the night sky like a pair of bottle rockets.
thanks to missy mazzaferro for transcribing crows and genesis...
lyrics file for [untitled] (sub-pop singles collection 7")

jam eater blues
life is too short to refrain from eating jam out of the jar.
life is too short to refrain from eating jam out of the jar.
and life is too short to wait around for you to come home tonight.
life is too short, 
too short to do that.
life is too short to leave the windows open all winter long.
life is too short to leave the windows open all winter long.
i'm gonna lock 'em up tight and eat jam out of the jar all night.
'cause life is too short to make toast,
or use spoons or napkins.
life is too short to spend the rest of it down here in tampa.
life is too short to spend the rest of it down here in tampa.
yeah, life is too short to let it go to waste like this,
but i never tasted jam before that tastes like this.
and life is too short to refrain from eating jam out of the jar.
store
in the five minutes worth of lost time that i had,
when i was passed out on the supermarket floor,
i saw you at the head of the heavenly chorus.
and i heard your song ringing all through the store.
in the five minutes when my broadcast got pre-empted,
i saw you touch down. you were no longer dead.
i was happy to see ya. i had lots of questions.
and i put my hand to the wound in your head.
ah, the blood!
all of that blood!
all of that warm blood flowing freely from you.
in the five minutes when i was dead to the world,
in a place far away from my friends and my home,
i saw you with a smile on your radiant face,
amidst all of the cans and the glass and the chrome.
and in those five minutes, my signal was jammed.
the frequencies that i received were so pure,
that i almost believed that the sight of the hole in your skull
was a thing that my heart could endure.
ah, the blood!
all of that blood!
all of that warm blood flowing freely from you!
straight six 
dull powder blue paint job.
earl scheib special.
dashboard full of talismans to try and push fate.
rabbit skull hanging from the rearview.
six kicking cylinders, lined up straight,
and i ride.
and i glide down the streets of this city all night, uptight.
jenny's on the cellular, high as a kite.
there's a crack in the windshield eighteen inches long.
evaporating snow forming crystals on the chrome.
brand new battery i shoplifted from the pep boys.
full cranking power to bring me on home,
and i ride.
and i glide down the streets of this city all night, uptight.
jenny's on the cellular, high as a kite.
sometimes the moon shines like a beacon to the weary and the sick in spirit.
sometimes... sometimes it's dark.


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
the sunset tree
Lyrics file for the sunset tree

you or your memory
I checked into a bargain priced room on la cienaga,
gazed out through the curtains of the parking lot.
walked down to the corner store just before nightfall in my bare feet.
black tarry asphalt, soft and hot.
and when I came back I spread out my supplies.
on the counter by the sink, 
I looked myself right in the eyes
st. joseph's baby aspirin,
bartles and jaymes,
and you or your memory.
I ducked behind the drapes when I saw the moon begin to rise,
gathered in my loose ends switched off the light.
and down there in the dark I can see the real truth about me.
as clear as day, lord if I make it through tonight
then I will mend my ways and walk the straight path to the end of my days.
st. joseph's baby aspirin,
bartles and jaymes,
and you or your memory.
broom people
'36 hudson in the garage,
all sorts of junk in the unattached spare room,
dishes in the kitchen sink,
new straw for the old broom,
friends who dont have a clue,
well meaning teachers,
but down in your arms,
in your arms, I am a wild creature.
floor two foot high with newspapers,
white carpet thick with pet hair,
half eaten gallons of ice cream in the freezer,
fresh fuel for the sodium flares,
I write down good reasons to freeze to death
in my spiral ring notebook,
but in the long tresses of your hair
I am a babbling brook.
this year
I broke free on a saturday morning.
I put the pedal to the floor.
headed north on mills avenue,
and listened to the engine roar.
my broken house behind me and good things ahead,
a girl named cathy wants a little of my time.
six cylinders underneath the hood crashing and kicking,
ahhh listen to the engine whine.
I am going to make it through this year if it kills me.
I am going to make it through this year if it kills me.
I played video games in a drunken haze
I was seventeen years young.
hurt my knuckles punching the machines
the taste of scotch rich on my tongue.
and then cathy showed up and we hung out.
trading swigs from the bottle all bitter and clean
locking eyes, holding hands,
twin high maintenance machines.
I am going to make it through this year if it kills me.
I am going to make it through this year if it kills me.
I drove home in the california dusk.
I could feel the alcohol inside of me hum.
picture the look on my stepfather's face,
ready for the bad things to come.
I downshifted as I pulled into the driveway.
the motor screaming out stuck in second gear.
the scene ends badly as you might imagine,
in a cavalcade of anger and fear.
there will be feasting and dancing in jerusalem next year.
I am going to make it through this year if it kills me.
I am going to make it through this year if it kills me.
dilaudid
the reception's gotten fuzzy.
the delicate balance has shifted.
put on your gloves and your black pumps.
let's pretend the fog has lifted.
now you see me.
now you don't.
now you say you love me.
pretty soon you won't.
if we get our full threescore and ten,
we won't pass this way again.
so kiss me with your mouth open.
turn the tires toward the street
and stay sweet.
all the chickens come on home to roost.
plump bodies blotting out the sky.
you know it breaks my heart in half, in half
when I see them trying to fly.
'cause you just can't do
things your body wasn't meant to.
hike up your fishnets.
I know you.
if we live to see the other side of this,
I will remember your kiss.
so do it with your mouth open.
and take your foot off of the brake
for christ's sake.
dance music
alright I'm on johnson avenue in san luis obispo
and I'm five years old or six maybe.
and indications there's something wrong with our new house
trip down the wire twice daily
I'm in the living room watching the watergate hearings
while my step father yells at my mother.
launches a glass across the room, straight at her head
and I dash upstairs to take cover.
lean in close to my little record player on the floor.
so this is what the volume knobs for.
I listen to dance music.
dance music.
ok so look I'm seventeen years old,
and you're the last best thing I've got going.
but then the special secret sickness starts to eat through you.
what am I supposed to do?
no way of knowing,
so I follow you down your twisting alleyways,
find a few cul de sacs of my own.
there's only one place where this road ever ends up.
and I don't want to die alone.
let me down, let me down, let me down gently.
when the police come to get me
I'm listening to dance music.
dance music.
dinu lapatti's bones
we stank of hair dye and ammonia.
we sealed ourselves away from view.
you were looking at the void and sat unblinking.
the best that I could do was to train my eyes on you.
we scaled the hidden hills beneath the surface,
scraped our fingers bloody on the stones.
and built our little house that we could live in
out of dinu lapatti's bones.
we kept our friends at bay all summer long.
treated the days as if they'd kill us if they could.
ringing out the hours like blood drenched bed sheets
to keep winter time at bay but december showed up anyway.
there was no money it was money that you wanted.
I went downtown, sold off most of what I owned.
and we raised a tower to broadcast all our dark dreams
from dinu lapatti's bones.
up the wolves
there's bound to be a ghost at the back of your closet
no matter where you live.
there'll always be a few things, maybe several things
that you're going to find really difficult to forgive.
there's going to come a day when you feel better.
you'll rise up free and easy on that day.
and float from branch to branch,
lighter than the air.
just when that day is coming, who can say? who can say?
our mother has been absent ever since we founded rome.
but there's going to be a party when the wolf comes home.
were going to commandeer the local airwaves
to tell the neighbours whats been going on.
and they will shake their heads and wag their bony fingers
in all the wrong directions,
and by daybreak we'll be gone.
I'm going to get myself in fighting trim,
scope out every angle of unfair advantage.
I'm going to bribe the officials.
I'm going to kill all the judges.
it's going to take you people years to recover from all of the damage.
our mother has been absent ever since we founded rome.
but there's going to be a party when the wolf comes home.
go!
lion's teeth
the king of the jungle
was asleep in his car.
when your chances fall in your lap like that,
you gotta recognize them for what they really are.
nobody in this house wants to own up to the truth.
I crawl in shotgun and reach into his mouth
and grab hold of one long, sharp tooth
and hold on.
for dear life, I hold on.
well of course he wakes up.
his paw hits the horn.
I am going to regret
the day that I was born.
and then mom
rushes out to the driveway
my sister too
everyone screaming,
I am dreaming of you.
I hold on.
for dear life, I hold on.
and my arms get sore.
and my palms start to sweat.
and the tears roll down my face,
till my cheeks are hot and red and soaking wet.
in come the cops
they blow torch the doors.
I start wailing.
the lion roars.
there's no good way to end this.
anyone can see
there's this great big you,
and little old me.
and we hold on.
for dear life, we hold on.
we hold on.
hast thou considered the tetrapod
you are sleeping off your demons
when I come home.
spittle bubbling on your lips,
fine white foam
I am young and I am good.
it's a hot southern california day.
if I wake you up, there will be hell to pay.
and alone in my room,
I am the last of a lost civilization.
and I vanish into the dark
and rise above my station.
rise above my station.
but I do wake you up, and when I do
you blaze down the hall and you scream.
I'm in my room with the headphones on
deep in the dream chamber.
and then I'm awake and I'm guarding my face,
hoping you don't break my stereo.
because it's the one thing that I couldn't live without
and so I think about that and then I sorta black out.
held under these smothering waves 
by your strong and thick veined hand,
but one of these days I'm going to wriggle up on dry land.
magpie
feed the kittens in the kitchen.
set food out for the strays.
try hard to do your best.
the magpie will have his way.
fill your mouth with berries
by the full light of the moon.
work all night if you have to.
the magpie comes at noon.
shore up the crucifixes
above the archways and the doors.
the magpie will come at midday.
and you will go down on all fours.
and when the cherries white with blossoms
be ready and be brave.
and remember what we had here
when there was something left to save.
song for dennis brown
on the day that dennis brown's lung collapsed, spring rain was misting down on kingston.
and down at the harbor, local cops were intercepting an inbound shipment.
and for a while there it was chaos
as they handcuffed and then roughed up some sailors.
on the day my lung collapses
it's not going to be much different.
on the day that dennis brown's habits caught up with him, school children sang in choirs.
and out behind the Chinese restaurants
guys were jumping into dumpsters.
and the stench was overbearing,
but they were past the point of caring.
on the day my habits catch up with me
I'll be down among the jumpers.
and when the birds come home in spring,
we will fill them full of buckshot.
and jets of contaminated blood
will cloud the rivers and the lakes.
it took all the coke in town to bring down dennis brown.
on the day my lung collapses
we'll see just how much it takes.
love love love
king saul fell on his sword when it all went wrong,
and joseph's brothers sold him down the river for a song,
and sonny liston rubbed some tiger balm into his glove.
some things you do for money and some you do for love love love.
raskolnikov felt sick but he couldn't say why
when he saw his face reflected in his victim's twinkling eye.
some things you'll do for money and some you'll do for fun,
but the things you do for love are going to come back to you one by one.
love love is going to lead you by the hand
into a white and soundless place.
now we see things as in a mirror dimly.
then we shall see each other face to face.
and way out in seattle young kurt cobain
snuck out to the greenhouse, put a bullet in his brain.
snakes in the grass beneath our feet, rain in the clouds above,
some moments last forever, but some flare up with love love love.
pale green things
got up before dawn
went down to the racetrack.
riding with the windows down
shortly after your first heart attack.
you parked behind the paddock,
cracking asphalt underfoot,
coming up through the cracks
pale green things
pale green things
we watched the horses run their workouts.
you held your stopwatch in your left hand
and a racing form beneath your arm,
casting your gaze way out to no man's land.
sometimes I'll meet you out there
lonely and frightened.
flicking my tongue out at the wet leaves
pale green things
pale green things
my sister called at three a.m.
just last december.
she told me how you'd died at last, at last
and that morning at the race track was one thing I remembered.
I turned it over in my mind
like a living chinese finger trap.
seaweed and indiana sawgrass
pale green things
pale green things
thanks to many people for submissions on this album, including carl wilson, piotr gawor, christopher dino, and eric bowen

 
lyrics file for sweden 


 
the recognition scene 

E, F#, A, E (x2)

E                      F#
we broke the doorknob off of the door. 
A                   E       
the door swung open easily. 
E                      F#
we sauntered into the poorly lit store, 
A                 E
and looked around lazily. 
E                                 F#
we stole every bit of candy they had inside. 
A                               E
gobbled it all up greedily on our 3 month ride.
E                              F#
I'm gonna miss you when you're gone. 
          A                    E
I'm gonna miss you when you're gone. 

you headed out to the getaway car 
and hit the open road 
I saw something written in tall clear letters on your face 
but I could not break the code. 
we had hot caramel sticking to our teeth 
and the only love I've ever known buring underneath 
I'm gonna miss you when you're gone. 
I'm gonna miss you when you're gone. 

I'm gonna miss you when you're gone. 
I'm gonna miss you when you're gone. 




 
downtown seoul 

there was a new song on the air. 
I saw you coming across the square. 
and a white bird broke the dark korean sky 
as the rest of my life went by 

I had your warm hand on my face. 
I took your index finger in between my teeth, 
and I held it gently in place. 
it was resting lightly on my tongue in there. 
I saw you shaking in the cold korean air. 
[and] there but for the grace of the lord of song 
I would be this very second and I'm coming right along. 
you had your cardigan on. 
I looked toward the sky and the white bird was gone. 
I remember your eyelids. 
I remember your body now. 




 
some swedish trees 

1,2 1,2,3,4 
john: oh you don't want to start like that? you want me to do the thing. 
rachel: that's not how we ever start it. 

well you were standing in the door 
while I wondered what you were waiting for 
I saw the wild strawberries on the vine 
out of control 

well I was trying to think of something clever 
you were saying nothing whatsoever 
I saw the berries throw their hooks into the soil 
felt the blood between us churning thick as motor oil 

we'd come from california 
the air around you was familiar to me now 
if you were gazing westward 
I was looking at you again 
yeah. 




 
I wonder where our love has gone 

spoken: I who have sat by thebes below the wall and walked 
among the lowest of the dead 

all I know is I'm in love with you 
even though you say that we are through 
I know without your love I just can't go on 
I wonder where our love has gone. 

always thought you'd love me more and more. 
never dreamed you'd ever let me go. 
I know without your love I just can't go on. 
I wonder where our love has gone. 

now what did I do 
and what did I say 
that ever could lead you to treat me this way? 
if I've been untrue, I'm willing to pay. 
and darling if that's not enough I'll do anything you say. 
so darling please wherever you may be, 
hear my plea. 
and hurry home to me. 
I know without your love I just can't go on. 
I wonder where our love has gone. 




 
deianara crush 

one day in september you come here. 
you pull my head down 
and you whisper in my ear. 
and you tell me the sidewalk is as far as the world really goes 
but that's a secret everybody knows. 

you hold my head in your hands. 
you say my name. 
how is it that though you say it some twenty thousand times it's never quite the same 
and you tell me that hercules died burning consumed by an article of his own clothing 
that's something I'd rather not be reminded of. 




 
whole wide world 

the last of the repercussions died off real slow 
and the sky was still 
and the cold sun sank down beneath the snow 
I hung by my hand from the tree outside 
and I looked at the whole wide world. 

when the voices came quietly. 
I shut them down. 
when a tricky young southerly wind 
came at me with its high whistling sound. 
I turned around to face it 
with real arrogance burning inside. 
and I drank in the whole wide world. 




 
flashing lights  

I am wearing a white long sleeved button-down. 
the pink colors behind the clouds tonight 
mirror the softer shades of your nightgown 
as the neuro-transmitters go crazy inside of me 
you swear you're leaving town 
empty promises empty promises. 

I am watching the way the wind seems to pass straight through your body. 
when you run your fingernail along my neck, you spill some water on me. 

you say you're as good as gone 
well, don't look now but here comes the dawn 
empty promises empty promises. 
empty promises empty promises. 




 
sept 19 triple x love! love! 

...i bet you don't know... 

I cut down that withered peach tree 
just like you asked me to. 
and I hacked it into pieces 
set it on fire with your face in plain view 
at the near window where you stood 
watching me split the wood 
I will do as I am told. 
I will keep away the cold. 

the fire pit in the snow 
gave off a rich bright orange-red glow 
a familar scent rose up into the air 
and I remembered something special from a long time ago 
you opened up the door 
stepped away from the killing floor 
your footprint on the snow was fresh and new 
when you touched me I felt fire coming through 
I will do as I am told. 
I will keep away the cold. 
I will do as I am told. 
I will keep away the cold. 




 
going to queens 

the ghostly sing-song 
of the children playing double-dutch. 
I felt the wind come through the window 
I felt it turn around and switch back. 
in the second story room 
in jamaica queens 
your hair was dripping wet. 
your skin was clean. 
and the children skipping rope 
tripled their speed 
you were all I'd ever wanted 
you were all I'd ever need. 
in new york city 
in the middle of july 
the air was heavy and wet 
the air was heavy, your body was heavy on mine. 
I will know who you are yet. 
I will know who you are yet. 




 
tahitian ambrosia maker 

we were real hungry and half dead 
when you broke out half a loaf of sourdough bread. 
and in the tropical air the scent rose like a spirit. 
moments of grace like this being wholly unmerited. ahh. 

we were newly alive and I felt your hand on my arm. 
I was awake to the sensation and immune from all harm. 
you pressed your soft cheek up against my gut. 
pure gold. nothing but gold,
and I'm gonna bake you a nice coconut cream pie. 
'cause I saw the sky coming down to meet you. 




 
going to bolivia 

john: it is the only appliance that grinds the grain into flour 
and kneads the dough in the same container 

I cut myself a two-foot switch from some tropical hardwood nearby. 
and the sounds of a carnival drifted miraculously 
through the air from a thousand miles away. 
the monkeys jumped from tree to tree. 
it sent a deathly chill through me 
in bolivia 

wildcats I had never seen claimed places in my room. 
animal noises rang through the thick brush like voices from the tomb. 
I saw the freshly polished chrome 
gleaming in the mid-day sun. 
and I knew that you were coming home 
to bolivia. 

hey hey 




 
tollund man 

I was sitting at the edge of the marsh 
when the council came to bring me the news. 
they handed me a bowl of cooked wild grasses and they 
gave me the ceremonial shoes. 

goodbye young danish women. 
goodbye danish sky. 
goodbye cold air I am going away. 
goodbye goodbye goodbye. 




 
california song 

I know you see mars in the sky tonight 
I know you can see venus rising and veering off to the right. 
but can you see that young star overhead? 
it's the one that designed my undoing. 
I know that in california the waves break on the beach. 
and I know that the foam on the breaking waves 
is as white as household bleach. 
but do you see that particular white right now 
it's the color of the young star coming on down. 
I got joy joy joy in my soul tonight 
I got joy joy joy in my arms alright. 
although you treat me badly,
I love you madly. 
you really got a hold on me. 
you really got a hold on me. 




 
snow crush killing song 

when I ask you to look at me 
you look away. 
I ask you to tell me something nice once. 
you come at me with all your hot lights on display. 
I know you're changing. 
damn you. 
I know you're changing. 
god damn you for that. 

when the snow stacked up outside,
you looked around. 
I could see you from the window. 
I could see the snow coming down. 
I know you're changing. 
damn you. 
I know you're changing. 
god damn you. 




 
send me an angel 

Em
in an hour or two 
Am
the sun will rise on you 
C                                           B
and it will be clear what has happened between us. 
Em
in an hour or two 
Am                             C
the wind will come through the window. 
                               B
the wind will tear through the house. 
     Em                         Am 
I am creeping up the staircase one step at a time 
   C                   B
to bring you roses and chocolate. 
          Em
roses and chocolate. 
    Am
roses. 
    C
roses. 
    B
roses. 

Em, Am, C, B (x3)



 
neon orange glimmer song 

there's a capsicum pepper plant growing out in the backyard 
there's a capsicum pepper plant growing out in the backyard 
and I... I am a monster 
I can't believe the thing I've done. 
I can't believe the thing I've done. 

there's a friend of mine living in dallas 
about a two days' drive from here. 
gotta friend of mine living in dallas 
and that's a two days' drive from here. 
and I... I am a monster 
I can't believe the thing I've done. 
I can't believe the thing I've done. 

and there's a cold wind blowing. 
and there's a silver bell hanging. 
and there's a silver bell ringing. 
and I... I am a monster 
I can't believe the thing I've done. 
I can't believe the thing I've done. 




 
fm 

hurry the bottle mama. 
it's grapefruit wine. 
kick off your high-heeled sneakers 
it's party time. 
the girls don't seem to care what's on. 
as long as it plays 'till dawn. 
no static at all. 

give her some fucked-up music 
she treats you nice. 
feed her some hungry reggae 
she'll love you twice. 
the girls don't seem to care tonight 
as long as the mood is right. 
no static at all. 
no static at all. 
hey.




 
prana ferox 

spoken: you wake up in the morning feeling gloriously alive 
with the firm conviction that the problems that disturbed you in the past 
will now disappear disappear disappear 
into the midnight of your consciousness. 

I went down to the basement 
to check up on the sour mash 
I looked down to the nonreactive ceramic tub 
it was bubbling. 
I had stirred up the dust on the stairs coming down. 
I saw the dust devils swarming around. 
incoming sun beams cut them apart. 
and I watched a shadow pass across my heart. 
you were upstairs in the kitchen with your head against the sink. 
trying to cool down. 
trying to cool down. 

I know you don't believe me but I could hear you breathing 
I looked into the tub and there the mixture was seething 
with new life. 
new life all around. 
I had stirred up the dust on the stairs coming down. 
you were upstairs in the kitchen with your head against the sink. 
trying to cool down. 
trying to cool down. 
yeah. 




 
cold milk bottle 

rainbows shone on the glass. 
dew drops gathered on the grass. 
and the yellow sun came into view. 
another god-damned message from you 
well despite your best efforts I feel alright 
against my better judgement I feel alright. 
despite your random acts of violence I feel alright 
despite the force of your fury I feel alright. 

you're mean to me. 
why must you be mean to me? 
you shouldn't forget you see 
what you mean to me. 




 
if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net 

lyrics file for taboo vi: the homecoming 
 
lyrics file for taboo vi: the homecoming 
 
running away with what freud said 
 
Big city, wide corner, 
New flowers, cold comfort. 
56 farenheit early in the morning. 
Buses passing by black smoke in their wake. 
Bit surprises, a lot of big surprises 
Bones ringing, running away with what Freud said. 
New morning, world breathing, 
Far, far from home
Big ringing in the bones
Whose bones are these? God please.
Feeling the pumping, feeling the fresh blood pump inside
City's living, the city's truly living 
What's the difference? Running away with what freud said. 
 
ice cream, cobra man 
 
I have a hand disfigured by snakebite.
I have a couple of things that I really like
and I am heading your way all the time.
I'm going to move all my vital organs
to someplace outside my body.
The wiring is something you would not believe.
I feel no pain as I float across your ceiling, and I --
I have no shame.
I am in a thousand rooms all at the same time.
Yeah and I have a glass
filled with water and light, and I feel good tonight.
I am climbing up this mountain.
You can watch me. You can watch me.
 
move (chicago 196?) 
 
you leave, you're gonna get athletes foot. 
athletes foot, when you leave. oooh. 
athletes foot, athletes foot, 
athletes foot, when you leave. 
oooh, oooh. 
[voices in background, giggling] 
if you leave, you're gonna get athletes foot. 
athletes foot, when you leave. 
oooh. athletes foot, athletes foot. 
athletes foot, when you leave. oooh. 
 
this magic moment * 
 
this magic moment, 
so different and so new. 
like any other. 
until I kissed you. 
and then it happened. 
it took me by surprise. 
I knew you felt it too, 
by the look in you eyes. 
sweeter than wine, 
softer than a summer night. 
the feeling I had inside, 
whenever I held you tight. 
this magic moment, 
with your lips so close to mine, 
will last forever, 
forever till the end of time. 
whoaaa, whoaaa, whoaaa. 
[repeat last two stanzas with 4 extra "whoaaa"s] 
 
don't take the dogs away 
 
don't take the dogs away. 
don't take that dog away from me. 
don't take the dogs away. 
don't take the dogs away from me. 
you do this every time. 
you do this every time I swear. 
you do this every time. 
you do this every time I learned. 
just look around. 
just look around the house we're in. 
what should I say to you? 
where do you want me to begin? 
don't take the dogs away. 
don't take the dogs away from me. 
don't take the dogs away. 
don't take the dogs away from me. 
 
one winter at point alpha privative 
 
what the hell kind of deal is it here anyway? 
how much does it cost and how long can you stay? 
should we dance? should we sing? should we curse? should we pray? 
do I have to hang on every single word that you say? 
every hour, every minute, every second of the day 
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. 
what the hell's going on at the end of the debate?
there's nothing you can do but ???? 
??????????????????????????? 
could we sit down over there? could we sit down any place?
can you feel the spirit moving? can you feel god's grace? 
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. 
ever since I've married you I've wondered what it means.
that every single shirt I owned was ????? 
every single piece of clothing, every last pair of jeans, 
all the reds, all the whites, all the yellows, all the greens. 
I'm sure that there's a reason all of this is happening. 
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. 
 
solomon revisited 
 
you say you came to see me, 
because you had nothing else to do, 
but I've got a radio. 
you say you'd thought you'd stop on by 
and let me have a look at you, 
but I've got a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
you say you brought some photographs, 
but I don't care to see them, 
'cause I've got a radio. 
you say this place must get dull sometimes, 
but that's not the way I see it. 
'cause I've got a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
I've got me a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
you see these frogs are treacherous, 
but how long has it been since you've seen my feet? 
you see, I've got a radio. 
you warned me about all sorts of things, 
but that's not the sort of warning that I need. 
you see, I've got a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
I've got a radio. 
 
going to alaska 
 
The jacaranda are wet with color, 
and the heat is a great paint brush, lending color to our lives, 
and to the air, and to out faces; but I'm going to Alaska 
where there's snow to suck the sound out from the air. 
Up, yes, in the branches, 
the purple blossoms, go pale at the edges;
there is meanining in the shifting of the sap, and I see in them traces 
of last year, but then they hadn't grown so strong, 
and their limbs were more like wires. Now they are cables.
thick and alive with alien electricity, and I am going to Alaska,
where you can go blind just by looking at the ground,
where fat is eaten by itself
just to keep the body warm.
Because from where we are now, it seems, really,
that everything is growing in a thousand different ways;
that the soil is soaked through with old blood and with relatives
who were buried here, or close to here, and they are giving rise
to what is happening. Or can you tell me otherwise?
I am going to Alaska, where the animals can kill you,
but they do so in silence, as though if no-one hears them,
then it really won't matter. I am going to Alaska.
They tell me that it's perfect for my purposes.
 
(note: woman speaking spanish (translating the song) in the background)
I'm so lonesome I could cry ** 
 
hear that lonesome whipporwill 
he sounds too blue to fly. 
the midnight train is riding low. 
I'm so lonesome I could cry. 
(sniff) 
I've never seen a night so long, 
when time goes crawling by. 
the moon just went behind the clouds 
to hide its face and die. 
(sniff) 
(sniff) 
did you ever see a robbin weep 
when leaves begin to die? 
that means he's lost the will to live. 
I'm so lonesome I could cry. 
the sign has come, a falling star. 
like love, a purple sky. 
they'll never wonder where you are. 
I'm so lonesome I could cry. 
(sniff) 
I'm so lonesome I could cry. 
 
eleven bands *** 
 
follow the grass up the mountain up the foot of the mountain. 
follow the twisting branches. 
when you look at them 
remember that they are alive, growing still. 
see their colors lighten, as you climb. 
watch the sunlight catch them and reflect them. 
it reflects them everywhere. 
one of these paths leading up the nameless mountain 
was the one that told you somthing once. 
but you will not find it here. 
it has shriveled up and pickeled off the mountain. 
like a dying vine. 
one these things take on their weightlessness, 
the structure comes apart. 
how do the trees grow in this weather? 
it is freezing cold. 
take the map on up the mountain side. 
and all the sounds from far and wide will leave you suddenly. 
and sugar winds come through the clouds. 
* is a drifters song 
** is a hank williams, jr. song 
*** is a congress song 

lyrics file for tallahassee
thanks to brian eck for transcribing this whole disc...

Tallahassee

Window facing an ill-kept front yard
Plums on the tree heavy with nectar
Prayers to summon the destroying angel
Moon stuttering in the sky like film stuck in a projector
And you
You
Twin prop airplanes passing loudly overhead
Road to the airport two lanes clear
Half the whole town gone for the summer
Terrible silence coming down here
And you
You
There is no deadline
There is no schedule
There is no plan we can fall back on
The road this far can't be retraced
There is no punch line anybody can tack on
There are loose ends by the score
What did I come down here for?
You
You

First Few Desperate Hours

Bad luck comes in from Tampa
Bad luck comes in from Tampa
On the back of a truck
Doing ninety up the interstate
We have bad dreams the night he rolls in
We have bad dreams the night he rolls in
And we try to keep our sprits high
But they flag and they wane
When the truck pulls up out front
In the light spring rain
And they sag like withering flowers
Let the good times roll on
Through these first few desperate hours
Yeah the driver drops his cargo at the curb
The driver drops his cargo at the curb
And the sun peeks in
Like a killer through the curtain
And when cloven hoof prints turn up in the garden
Yeah when cloven hoof prints turn up in the garden
We keep up the good fight
We keep our spirits light
But they draw like flies
And there's a stomach-churning shift
In the way the land lies
And they lean like towers
On a hillside struggling to stand
Through these first few desperate hours
Yeah

Southwood Plantation Road

I've got you
You've got whatever's left of me to get
Our conversations are like minefields
No one's found a safe way through one yet
I spend a lot of money
I buy you white gold
We raise up a little roof
Against the cold
On Southwood Plantation Road
Where at night the stars blow like milk across the sky
Where the high wires drop
Where the fat crows fly
All night long you giggle and scream
Your brown eyes deeper than a dream
I am not going to lose you
We are going to stay married
In this house like a Louisiana graveyard
Where nothing stays buried
On Southwood Plantation Road
Where the dead will walk again
Put on their Sunday best
And go with unsuspecting Christian men
La la la la la

Game Shows Touch Our Lives

Dug up a fifth of Hood River gin
That stuff tastes like medicine
But I'll take it
It'll do
On the couch in the living room all day long
Music on the television playing our song
And I'm in the mood
The mood for you
Turn the volume up real high
All of that money look at it fly
And you smoking like a chimney
Shadows crawled across the living room's length
I held onto you with a desperate strength
With everything with everything in me
And I handed you a drink of the lovely little thing
On which our survival depends
People say friends don't destroy one another
What do they know about friends?
Thunderclouds forming cream white moon
Everything's going to be okay soon
Maybe tomorrow
Maybe the next day
Carried you up the stairs that night
All of this could be yours if the price is right
I heard cars headed down to oblivion
Up on the expressway
Your drunken kisses as light as the air
Maybe everything that falls down eventually rises
Our house sinking into disrepair
Ah but look at this showroom filled with fabulous prizes

The House That Dripped Blood

Look beyond the broken bottles
Past the rotting wooden stairs
Root out the wine-dark honeyed center
Not everyone can live like millionaires
Look through the air-thin walls
Tear up the floorboards strip the paint
Go over every inch of space
With the patience of a saint
Grab your hat get your coat
The cellar door is an open throat
Look past the kitchen cabinets
Go through the chest of drawers
Scrutinize the casements
Rip the varnish off the doors
Dig up the laughing photographs
They're here somewhere or other
Take what you can carry
But let me tell you brother
Still waters go stagnant
Bodies bloat
And the cellar door is an open throat

Idylls Of The King

This place with its old plantations
These roads leading out to the sea
This day full of promise and potential
More clay pigeons for you and me
All of them all of them
All of them all of them
All of them all of them all of them all of them
All lined up
Huge crows loitering by the curb
Our shared paths unraveling behind us like ribbons
And I dreamed of vultures
In the trees around our house
And cicadas and locusts
And the shrieking of innumerable gibbons
All of them all of them
All of them all of them
All of them all of them all of them all of them
All lined up
How long will we ride this wave out?
How long 'til someone caves under the pressure?
My dreams are haunted by armies armies of ghosts
Faces too blurry to make out
Numbers far too high to measure
Your face like a vision straight out of Holly Hobby
Late light drizzling through your hair
Your eyes twin volcanoes
Bad ideas dancing around in there
All all of them all of them
All of them all of them
All of them all of them all of them all of them
All lined up

No Children

I hope that our few remaining friends
Give up on trying to save us
I hope we come up with a failsafe plot
To piss off the dumb few that forgave us
I hope the fences we mended
Fall down beneath their own weight
And I hope we hang on past the last exit
I hope it's already too late
And I hope the junkyard a few blocks from here
Someday burns down
And I hope the rising black smoke carries me far away
And I never come back to this town
Again in my life
I hope I lie
And tell everyone you were a good wife
And I hope you die
I hope we both die
I hope I cut myself shaving tomorrow
I hope it bleeds all day long
Our friends say it's darkest before the sun rises
We're pretty sure they're all wrong
I hope it stays dark forever
I hope the worst isn't over
And I hope you blink before I do
Yeah I hope I never get sober
And I hope when you think of me years down the line
You can't find one good thing to say
And I'd hope that if I found the strength to walk out
You'd stay the hell out of my way
I am drowning
There is no sign of land
You are coming down with me
Hand in unlovable hand
And I hope you die
I hope we both die

See America Right

I was driving up from Tampa
When the radiator burst
I was three sheets to the wind
A civilian saw me first
And then there was the cop
And then the children standing on the corner
Your love is like a cyclone in a swamp
And the weather's getting warmer
I was getting out of jail
Heading to the Greyhound
You said you'd hop on one yourself
And meet me on the way down
I was shaking way too hard to think
Dead on my feet about to drop
Went and got the case of vodka from a car
And walked the two miles to the bus stop
Got on the bus half drunk again
The driver glared at me
Met up with you in Inglis
Thumbed a ride to Cedar Key
If we never make it back to California
I want you to know I love you
But my love is like a dark cloud full of rain
That's always right there up above you
Hey!

Peacocks

I hear them squeal
I see them preen
Fans all spread out
Neat and clean
Grab hold of the morning
Head out to the porch
Feel the wind stopping
Feel the sun scorch
I fear for my safety
You can see it in my eyes
In an hour or two
We will rise
Then a sharp breeze kicks up
I hug myself hard
How come there's peacocks in the front yard?
Sun's all prickly
On my neck
When the helicopter passes
We both hit the deck
Hands grasping and groping
Seizing opportunity
Right where it lies
The sky will fall
We will rise

International Small Arms Traffic Blues

My love is like a powder keg
My love is like a powder keg in the corner of an empty warehouse
Somewhere just outside of town
About to burn down
My love is like a Cuban plane
My love is like a Cuban plane flying from Havana
Up the Florida coast to the 'Glades
Soviet made
Our love is like the border between Greece and Albania
Our love is like the border between Greece and Albania
Trucks loaded down with weapons
Crossing over every night
Moon yellow and bright
There is a shortage in the blood supply
But there is no shortage of blood
The way I feel about you baby can't explain it
You got the best of my love

Have To Explode

Tile floor of the bathroom
Scrubbed clean and bright
Checkerboard white and grey
Towels from the Ritz-Carlton hotel in Kingston Jamaica
I can still see the rust colored stains today
The stage is set
Someone's going to do something someone else will regret
I speak in smoke signals and you answer in code
The fuse will have to run out sometime
Something here will eventually have to explode
Have to explode
You and me lying on the tile floor
Trying to keep cool
Restless all night
Sweating out the poison
As the temperature climbs
Staring up up at the hundred-watt light that burns above
Name one thing about us two anyone could love
We roll out the red carpet
When rotten luck comes down the road
Five four three two one
Watch for the flash
Something here will eventually have to explode
Have to explode

Old College Try

From the housetops to the gutters
From the ocean to the shore
The warning signs have all been bright and garish
Far too great in number to ignore
From the cities to the swamplands
From the highways to the hills
Our love has never had a leg to stand on
From the aspirins to the cross-tops to the Elevils
But I will walk down to the end with you
If you will come all the way down with me
From the entrance to the exit
Is longer than it looks from where we stand
I want to say I'm sorry for stuff I haven't done yet
Things will shortly get completely out of hand
I can feel it in the rotten air tonight
In the tips of my fingers
In the skin on my face
In the weak last gasp of the evening's dying light
In the way those eyes I've always loved illuminate this place
Like a trashcan fire in a prison cell
Like the searchlights in the parking lots of hell
I will walk down to the end with you
If you will come all the way down with me

Oceanographer's Choice

Well
Guy in a skeleton costume
Comes up to the guy in the Superman suit
Runs through him with a broadsword
I flipped the television off
Bring all the bright lights up
Turn the radio up loud
I don't know why I'm so persuaded
That if I think things through
Long enough and hard enough
I'll somehow get to you
But then you came in and we locked eyes
You kicked the ashtray over as we came toward each other
Stubbed my cigarette out against the west wall
Quickly lit another
Look at that
Would you look at that?
We're throwing off sparks
What will I do when I don't have you
To hold onto in the dark?
Yes
Everybody's going to need a witness
Everybody's going to need a little backup
In case the scene gets nasty
You throw the attic window open
And I throw myself all around you
And night comes to Tallahassee
I don't know why it's gotten harder to keep myself away
Thought I'd finally beat the feeling back
It all came back today
And then we fell down
And we locked arms
We knocked the dresser over as we rolled across the floor
I don't mean it when I tell you
That I don't love you any more
Look at that
Would you look at that?
The way the ceiling starts to swerve
What will I do when I don't have you
When I finally get what I deserve?

Alpha Rats Nest

Ah the lengthening hours in the refinery
Belching fire into the sky
We do our best vampire routines
As we suck the dying hours dry
The night is lovely as a rose
If I see sunlight hit you
I am sure that we'll both decompose
Ah the fitful sleep and the fire engines
That I dream of when I dream
Some day we'll both wake up for good
I will try hard not to scream
The evening wind will shake the blinds
You're stirring from your slumber
We've got something hateful on our minds
Oh sing sing sing
For the dying of the day
Sing for the flames that will rip through here
And the smoke that will carry us away
Yeah sing for the damage we've done
And the worse things that we'll do
Open your mouth up and sing for me now
And I will sing for you
lyrics file for why you all so thief?


going to tennesee

baseball season will be starting soon.
but we have no baseball team here.
i've got a house right on the river.
i can see arkansas from where i am.
the dogs are gathered.
and the birds are chattering
and the sun is setting on memphis.
and the sun is setting on memphis.
medicine bottle collection on the window sill
shakes when the cars go past on interstate fifty-five
you are standing above me.
you've washed your face with that apricot scrub again.
i'm glad i'm alive
and your skin is warming up.
and my skin is warming up.
and the sun is setting on memphis.
and the sun is setting on memphis.


pure heat

the wind from the north, flattens the yellow corn.
you come into the house, with your dress torn.
i can see you now, as through a screen.
a smile on your face, your fingers dripping kerosene
your hair hangs down, over me.
your hair casts a shadow to cover me.
i can see you now, as through a screen.
a smile on your face, your fingers dripping kerosene
the wind from the north, cools me.
the wind from the north, doesn't fool me.
i can see you now, as through a screen.
a smile on your face, your fingers dripping kerosene

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for tropical depression


anti-music song

i saw you on tv
doing a bad imitation of van morrison
and i saw you on tv
doing a bad imitation of a second rate songwriter from the eighties named morrissey
i never liked morrissey
and i don't like you.
i saw you tv, 
doing an imitation of an imitation of jimi hendrix
that's really pathetic
and i saw you on tv 
trying to figure out what brian jones would be like if he'd have lived 'til today
i can tell you myself
he'd be like brian wilson
i don't like brian wilson
and i don't like you
i don't like you.


going to hungary

we touched down in budapest
headed straight for the motel rooom and got undressed
we had not slept for three or four days
and we slipped underneath the covers
it felt ok
about twelve hours later the sun came out to play
i felt it on my eyelids
i pushed your hair away
you put on your old gloves
you put on your new shirt
i put on my cowboy boots
i slipped on my yellow shirt
we headed out, sweat drying on our bodies
and i got all sentimental
we were heading straight to hell
in a lincoln continental


earth air water trees

through the shifting colors in the sky
i heard the wild geese call.
and the light was bright and clear and cold
over eastern montreal
and although, i know
you're only toying with me now,
and although, i know
you hold your affection for me like a bone on a string
i love you, i love you because
you gave me sausage and cheese when i was hungry.
you hold your closed hand out to me
and you told me to guess what you had inside
and i had a thousand guesses and some of them were good
but i knew for sure that i was losing my mind
when the scent came rising
through the spaces between your fingers
when the scent called to me
and i knew we'd last at least until the end of december
i love you, i love you because
you gave me sausage and cheese when i was hungry.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for i like walt!


noche del gaujolote

the glowing world, the bench backed up against the house
the chicken coops the darkness surrounding everything
it was late and the night was moving slowly
we laid down on the ground because the world was lonely
if you keep quiet it will stay like this forever
if you just keep quiet it will stay like this forever
i feel certain of it now
and all the birds were sleeping in their perches
the little wind, swaying birches
and the north american wild turkey
that your father brought home
woke up and came towards us
and the moonlight and the turkey waking up
and the night air and the moonlight on your skin
and the moonlight and the turkey waking up
and the quiet yardand the turkey and the moon
unimaginable
unimaginable
unimaginable
unimaginable

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for the wedding record


going to port washington

the trees were all decked out in their best fall colors
there was a snap in the air
when you eased down the window
and the new york sun brought out the highlights in your hair
and gently, gently
the constellations aligned
and as we crossed over the throgs neck bridge i had
something on my mind
when we rolled down the street
in the cool of the morning
i could feel the new day dawn
and somebody had gone and turned the waterworks on
and slowly, surely
i saw the whole story unwind
i had never loved anyone like i loved you
and i had something on my mind

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net>nall@themountaingoats.net

lyrics file for the wheel method

song for an old friend
the garter snake passed lazily through the tall yellow-headed sourgrass
there was cold, clear water in a tall, clean glass
the sunlight hit the sides and it came through the water tilted
i saw the condensation on your hand 
i could feel the glaciers melting
and a warm, soft wind
covered up everything
on the day your love came screaming through me
you had oranges and lemons in a canvas bag beside you
and seven different kinds of light welling up inside of you
you smeared citrus pulp all over me, it felt okay
good old east rutherford three thousand miles away
i felt the warm surge blast my mind
coming in from behind
on the day your love came screaming through me
in the fresh light of day
i felt something falling away
on the day your love came screaming through me
thanks go out to  andrew lison for transcribing this...


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at 
nall@themountaingoats.net
We Shall All Be Healed lyrics
Lyrics file for We Shall All Be Healed


Slow West Vultures

Breaking the signal
So it's totally unreadable
Drinking the dregs
Eating the utterly inedible
We do what we do
All for you
All dressed up
Black hat and white cane
Slowly the circling the drain
Ready for the future
Ready for the world about to come
Shooting the sequel before the treatment's even finished
Sanding numbers off the monojects
As our slight returns diminish
We are what we are
Get in the goddamn car
Smiling faces flawlessly rehearsed
We are sleek and beautiful
We are cursed
Ready for the future
Ready for the world about to come

Palmcorder Yajna

Holt Boulevard
Between Gary and White
Hooked up with some friends at the Travelodge
Set ourselves up for the night
Carpenter ants in the dresser
Flies in the screen
It will be too late by the time we learn
What these cryptic symbols mean
And I dreamt of a house
Haunted by all you tweakers with your hands out
And the headstones climbed up the hills
And the headstones climbed up the hills
Send somebody out for soda
Comb through the carpet for clues
Reflective tape on our sweatpants
Big holes in our shoes
Every couple minutes someone says he can't stand it any more
Laugh lines on our faces
Scale maps of the ocean floor
And I dreamt of a camera
Pointing out from inside the televsion
And the aperture yawning and blinking
And the headstones climbed up the hills
If anybody comes to see me
Tell 'em they just missed me by a minute
If anybody comes in to our room while we're asleep
I hope they incinerate everybody in it
And I dreamt of a factory
Where they manufactured what I needed
Using shiny new machines
And the headstones climbed up the hills

Linda Blair Was Born Innocent

Gentle hum of the old machines
Here we come scrubbed and scoured
Patches on our jeans
When the drone sounds
In the cool night wind
We pick up the call
Kick all the traces in
Hungry for love
Ready to drown
So tie down the sails
We're going downtown
Great big drain on the power grid
You may not like Tate's methods
But you've got to admit
She's a real nice kid
We walk light
Down the wires
Higher than weather baloons
Empty hearts on fire
Hungry for love
Ready to drown
So tie down the sails tonight
We're going downtown

Letter From Belgium

Martin calls to say he's sending old electrical equipment
That's good we can always use some more electrical equipment
In the cold clear light of day down here
Everyone's a monster
That's cool with all of us
We've been past the point of help since early April
Susan and her notebook
Freehand drawings of Lon Chaney
Blueprints for geodesic domes
Recipies for cake
Yeah we're all here
Chewing our tongues off
Waiting for the fever to break
When we walk out in the sunlight we tell every we know it hurts our eyes
When the real reason we don't like it is that it makes us wonder if we're dying
And Martin's found an old trunk full of stage makeup in the basement
And he's sending it along
We can always use more makeup
Yeah more creams and powders
And Carrie's got the feeling
That the people next door
Will close in like a wolf pack
Should we make one small mistake
Yeah we're all here
Chewing our tongues off
Waiting for the fever to break

The Young Thousands

Boats ease into the harbor bearing real suspicious cargo
And the sunlight on the water
Sets a switch off in your brain
The things that you've got coming will consume you
There's someone waiting out there in an alley with a chain
The ghosts that haunt your building are prepared to take on substance
And the dull pain that you live with isn't getting any duller
There's a closet full of almost-pristine videotape
Documenting sordid little scenes in living color
Here they come
The young thousands
Here they come
The young thousands
You drive east from the ocean with both hands tied on the wheel
And you go past Garden Grove
As the pleasure index rises
The things that you've got coming will do things that you're afraid to
There is someone waiting out there with a mouthful of surprises
The ghosts that haunt your building have been learning how to breathe
They scan the hallways nightly vainly searching for a sign
There must be diamonds somewhere in a place that stinks this bad
There are brighter things than diamonds coming down the line
Here they come
The young thousands
Here they come
The young thousands

Your Belgian Things

The men were here to get your Belgian things
They'll store them for you in an airplane hangar
There's guys in biohazard suits
Mud kicking on their rubber boots
They've come to keep your pretty things from danger
The men were here to get your Belgian things
They'll spend the whole day hauling them downstairs
I shot a roll of thirty-two exposures
My camera groans beneath the weight it bears
I can see you in my sleep
Playing the points for all you're worth
Walking gingerly across the bruised earth
The men were here to get your Belgian things
They waltzed right through the door and went flourescent
Their boots were black and shiny and your treasures gleamed like stars
Bones from deep down in the fertile crescent
The arteries are clogging in the mainframe
There's too much information in the pipes
I saw the mess you left up in the east bedroom
A tiger's never gonna change its stripes
I guess
I guess but Jesus what a mess
One way in and no way out
The men were here to get your Belgian things
And only I was here to see them do it
I wish you had a number where you are
It's hard with no one here to help me through it
I can see you in my sleep
Playing the points for all you're worth
Walking gingerly across the bruised earth

Mole

I came to see you up there in intensive care
They had handcuffed you to your bed
There were tubes going into you and out from you
Bright white gauze bandages at your head
I am a mole
Sticking his head above the surface of the earth
I am a mole
Sticking his head above the surface of the earth
And they said "Lights out"
And it was lights out
And they gave you your medication
I know what you want and you know what I want
Information
Information
I am a mole
Sticking his head above the surface of the earth
I am a mole
Sticking his head above the surface of the earth
Out in the desert we'll have no worries
Out in the desert just you and me
I came to see you up there in intensive care
Out in the desert we'll live carefree
I am a mole
Sticking his head above the surface of the earth
I am a mole
Sticking his head above the surface of the earth

Home Again Garden Grove

Wipe down the windshields and roll down the windows
Let's go where the jackals are breeding
Wrap this bandanna around your head
Don't let anyone see that you're bleeding
Fire up the scanner and keep your eyes on it
Don't speak unless someone speaks to you
Hands in your pockets and sun on your face
The warm love of God coursing through you
Home again
Home again
Garden Grove
Garden Grove
I can remember when we were in high school
Our dreams were like fugitive warlords
Plotting triumphant returns to the city
Keeping Tec-9's tucked under the floorboards
Ah
Now we are practical men of the world
We tether our dreams to the turf
And cruise down these alleys for honey to feed them
Jellyfish riding the surf
Shoving our heads straight into the guts of the stove
Home again
Garden Grove
Garden Grove

All Up The Seething Coast

I eat a couple Milky Ways for breakfast
I take my coffee light and sweet
Show up for dinner when you tell me to
I heap the sugar high and white on everything I eat
Carry an apple in my pocket
I write reminders on my skin
Clip meaningless pictures from old magazines
I tape them to the walls
It's a bad place I'm in
And nothing you can say or do will stop me
And a thousand dead friends can't stop me
I go back to places I remember
See what's been going on without me
Stare down the strangers at the bus stop
Pretend they've been gossiping about me
White sugar by the spoonful
Canteloupes and grapes and watermelons
I force it down like it was medicine
Anybody asks you tell 'em what you want to tell 'em
But the best you've got is powerless against me
All your little schemes break when they come crashing up against me
Ahh

Quito

When I receive the blessing I've got coming
I'm going to raise an ice-cold glass of water
And toast the living and the dead who've gone before me
And my head will throb like an old wound reopening
When I get off the bus down there my children
They all are going to greet me at the station
Like gypsies they will dance around me 
And the choral droning sound their voices make will saturate the evening
When I get off the wheel I'm going to stop
And make amends to everyone I've wounded
And when I wave my magic wand 
Those few who've slipped the surly bonds will rise like salmon at the spawning

Cotton

This song is for the rats
Who hurled themselves in to the ocean
When they saw that the explosives in the cargo hold
Were just about to blow
This song is for the soil
That's toxic clear down to the bedrock
Where no thing of consequence can grow
Drop your seeds there
Let them go
Let them all go
Let 'em all go
This song is for the people
Who tell their families that they're sorry
For things they can't and won't feel sorry for
And once there was a desk
And now it's in a storage locker somewhere
And this song is for the stick pins and the cottons
I left in the top drawer
Let 'em all go
Let 'em all go
I wanna sing one for the cars
That are right now headed silent down the highway
And it's dark and there is nobody driving
And something has got to give
I saw you waiting by the roadside
You didn't know that I was watching
Now you know
Let it all go
Let 'em all go
Let it all go

Against Pollution

When I worked down at the liquor store
Guy with a shotgun came raging through the place
Muscled his way behind the counter
I shot him in the face
This morning I went down to the Catholic Church
'Cause something just came over me
Forty-five minutes in the pews
Praying the rosary
When the last days come
We shall see visions
More vivid than sunsets
Brighter than stars
We will recognize each other
And see ourselves for the first time
The way we really are
Decorative grating on my window
Gets a little rustier every year
I don't know how the metal gets rusty
When it never rains here
A year or so ago I worked at a liquor store
And a guy came in
Tried to kill me so I shot him in the face
I would do it again
I would do it again
When the last days come
We shall see visions
More vivid than sunsets
Brighter than stars
We will recognize each other
And see ourselves for the first time
The way we really are

Pigs That Ran Straightaway Into The Water, Triumph Of

[spoken:] The story of the pigs who ran straightaway into the water and their great triumph
You're gonna send me back to where I came from
Please don't send me back to where I came from
Let me go where the white magnolias grow
You're gonna fit me for that orange jumpsuit
Please don't fit me for that orange jumpsuit
Let me ride where the dragonflies glide
Yeah but you're going to do what you wanna do
No matter what I ask of you
You think you hold the high hand
I've got my doubts
I come from Chino where the asphalt sprouts
Big bus headed southeast from the courthouse
But I'm not headed southeast from the courthouse
Let some mysterious chunk of space debris
Puncture the roof and set me free
And even if I have to go to Claremont
Well I guess I'll just have to go to Claremont
Let me go
Let me lie low
Yeah but you're going to do what you wanna do
No matter what I ask of you
And you send your dark messengers to tempt me
I come from Chino so all your threats are empty

thanks to brian eck for transcribing this
lyrics file for a munchies kinda xmas
lyrics file for a munchies kinda xmas


the pieman
spoken: this is like the oldest Mountain Goats song in existence...
for days i watched you from my place.
a thousand miles away in space.
remebering you body, how it it turned me into what i am now.
i have not broken any laws to work toward my stupid cause.
i can see you now from where i am.
i can see you completely.
i planted hedges of hydrangia
because you were going to pennsylvania.
and i didn't know what else to do.
i wanted to put my hands on you.
i wanted to tell you everything,
but i eneded up here orbiting.
i can see you now,
i can feel you now.
from where i am, i can see you completely.
i went into your room,
it got so crazy in there, the air turned hot.
and i saw them, but i didn't read your letters.
i will never bleed like i used to bleed again.
i can't bleed like normal men.
but i can see you, my heart beats like a magic drum.
from where i am, i can see you completely.
spoken: thanks.

 
return to thethe Mountain Goats...

please mail any questions/comments/complaints, or just notes hello to:<a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net
lyrics file for palmcorder yajna single

butter teeth
we spilled out through the front door
into the blinding late light
sun reflected on the storefront windows
tremendously bright
we were norwegians come down from the north
attacking the walls of the fortress
I was permenantly at the point of exhaustion
you were gorgeous
who's here? just us
nobody else around
stray electrical currents
trying to find the ground
we haunted the walls of the pharmacy
artlessly shoplifting random things
pain killers, cough syrup, tiger balm
bubble gum, cigarettes, and shower curtain rings
we were portuguese warships cresting the waves
Cannons raised ready to dock
you were counting down the hours and the minutes
I was trying to find a way of stopping the clock
Thanks to Alex Glasnovic for transcribing this
snakeheads
weather sailed from northern canada
do in before the afternoon is over
brown cows in the fields
eating their way slowly through the clover
and the canopy of apple trees before us
symmetrical and pure as a pagoda
me and lee chong from chicago in a uhaul
headed out through western Minnesota
headed for the islands
headed for the islands
our load is heavy, you can hear it shifting
say what you like I'm never gonna stop
everyone will eat when we've arrived
white apple blossoms soften up the blacktop
two days from now we'll get to where we're going
the western sky will pitch correct it's whining
our cargo's gonna spill out from the cabin
and rub it's eyes and see the silver lining
yeah yeah
headed for the islands
headed for the islands
Thanks to Christopher MacMurray for transcribing this


if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net

lyrics file for yam, the king of crops

thanks go out to leslie kleinsberg for transcribing this tape!!


seed song
the rain didn't come for one calendar year
so when the man with the sunflower seeds in his hand came here
we sent him away, we sent him away
the rain didn't come for twelve months more
so when the man with the seed catalogs darkened our door
we sent him away (4x)
and i know you're waiting for the ironic ending
and i know you're waiting for the punchline
and i know you're waiting for the rain to come by
so am i (4x)

quetzalcoatl comes through
he came spitting fire
on a day like no other
tried to hold you near to me
i heard him passing over
he made a banquet for the stray dogs of the air
he put our love in clear perspective
blue, red and green plumage
trailing behind him now
swaddling the sky in its aftermath
the last day coming down
he made a banquet for the stray dogs of the air
he put our love in clear perspective
rising, rising, rising, rising

omega blaster
you've come back from yosemite
you brought an aromatic cedar bookmark for me
and a brand new stuffed bear
it's summertime, you've cut your hair
and i am leaving you, and i am sorry
you come in through the back door
why're you coming in like that, smiling for?
i've got something i need to tell you
i can feel your smile burning through
and i am leaving you, and i am sorry

coco-yam song
a neighboring clan went on the attack
and stole all the giant coco-yams from the barn out back
i will make them pay for taking my yams away
i carved out little figurines of thieves
burned a palmful of red dust from the medicine bag
broke a kola nut in half, i hate half of it myself
sat back and watched the evening drag
i will make them regret that they haven't brought my yams back yet

alagemo
the new rose floating on water in the old plain bowl
the white clouds on night sky
the way they just roll on by made me think of you
and the religious cult of flesh disillusion you've committed yourself to
alagemo, alagemo
the night crawlers poking their little slimy heads through the dirt
made me think of you again
made me think of you a third time
i don't know where you've gone
but i hear your voice droning on
alagemo, alagemo

two thousand seasons
how have we come to be mere mirrors to annihilation?
whom do we aspire to reflect our people's death?
for whose entertainment shall we sing our agony?
one hopes that the destroyers aspiring to extinguish us
will suffer conciliatory remorse at the sight of their own fantastic success
the last imbecile that dreams such dreams is dead
killed by the saviors of his dreams
how have we come to be mere mirrors to annihilation?

chinese rifle song
lay out on the patio, dreaming (2x)
and the chinese rifles sounded in the evening air
i heard them popping off everywhere
i lay out on the patio, on the chaise lounge
i lay out on the patio, and i let my hand rest against the hot redwood frame
and the chinese rifles sounded again
could not stomach their acumen

yam, the king of crops
felt sick, felt good
the heat burns, old wood
muscles in my arms pump like machines
the jericho palm tree is plush and green
bright sun, the new day
i felt sick in a good way
felt the fever climb when you came down
all the way across town
and you brought me a plate of sweet potatoes
sun fading overhead
the sunset, bright red
your green eyes, your smooth walk
fresh tomato, celery stalk, you cook
pot of pari basmati rice
i felt good, you looked nice
you stood like galatea, over me
fried garlic, kimchi
and you brought me a plate of sweet potatoes
lyrics file for those pre-phylloxera years


faithless bachant song

somewhere in the damn forest...
where the fat pines look like my brother's arms,
thick and ripe
i'm trying to get out for days and these green vines
keep getting in my way
i came up to a clearing.
where the crosswinds cooled my face.
i would've sat down there in the middle,
i would've rested just a little,
but for the fire-bellied toads.
see the ground was wet and they were everywhere.
fire-bellied toad number five
from what may or may not have been unlimited series
opened up his little mouth
as though to speak,
and then he spoke
and then he spoke to me, and he said,
"you can't holler down a rain barrel.
you can't climb around a tree.
i don't want to play in your yard.
if you won't be good to me."
honey it was downright creepy.

if these are wrong, or you know guitar chords, or just want to say hi, 
please write me at <a 
href="mailto:nall@themountaingoats.net">nall@themountaingoats.net

lyrics file for zopilote machine
thanks to leslie kleinberg for transcribing this whole disc...

alpha incipiens
the morning comes to a stuttering halt
the cool breeze that blows is somebody's fault
the summer heat tries to burn through
and i look over to warn you but something's happening
the morning glories climb the wall
and you speak in a slow drawl
i'm trying to piece together what you're saying
but the birds are screeching, the hounds are baying
i don't remember there being any hounds around here
we lean back and we clink our glasses
raise the drinks to our thirsty mouths,
and thick as molasses ice cold vodka eases in as
the low pressure system brings the breezes in
and they sashay and pirouette above you
the only thing i know is that i love you 
and i'm holding on,
yeah

azo tle nelli in tlalticpac?
i was sitting in the street when the news came my way (2x)
good news (4x)
i was sitting in the street when the messenger came by 
i was sitting in the street when the messenger came my way
good news, good news like a rare blood disorder
good news (2x)
i was sitting in the street
i don't believe i've made it clear what exactly i mean by that
i was sitting in the middle of the street
dust made its way into my legs even though my shirt was tucked in
and i saw the colors forming in the west
saw the bright feathers reflected in the sky, now
good news (4x)

alpha sun hat
you say again that nothing's wrong
i'd really like to play along
your ruby red mouth is full and moist
i'd like to give in to your oboe reed voice
but as sure as those are buzzards in the guava tree
you're looking real funny at me
1 2 3 4,
that's not music you hear, that's the devil
that's not the sun up in the sky, it's a human heart
if you're planning your escape, you know i'm all for you
as i watch the sun come up again over tallahassee, florida

the black ice cream song
and the heat came down (2x)
i knew i was living in a long, long dream
when you fed me the black ice cream
and the heat rose up (2x)
i heard the loud loud buzzing of our son's go-kart
and the ice cream was blacker than the devil's heart
it was august the 19th, 1957
i fixed my eyes on you, fixed my eyes on you

sinaloan milk snake song
(everybody ready? uh yeah! um-hmm.)
sun melts everything down, and the hills are reduced to nothing
the whole house shakes, and you can see that the coach is coming
you lean down and you pick up the small soft eggs in the dust outside my door
i hold them in my hands, they are warm and the air is warming up now
i've got a message for you, if i could only remember
i've got a message for you, but you're gonna have to come and get it
la la la la la la la la, la la la la la la la la
ever since i came here, all i could think about is water
last night they brought the fat lamb in from the fold 
but i couldn't bring myself to do anything about it
i remember california, i remember malibu
i remember the states and the names of the cities but i don't remember you
and i've got a message for you, if i could only remember
i've got a message for you, but you're gonna have to come and get it
i've got a message for you, i've got a message for you, 2 3 4
la la la la la la la la, la la la la la la la la (2x, etc.)
ya!
whoo
sarah: huh-huh-huh huh huh
ay
[laughs]

we have seen the enemy
everything i've told you was true
so imagine my surprise when i blink my eyes 
and realize that i've been talking to you
and i've told you everything
even the parts i'd meant to leave out
and i shake my hair, and i look about
and the wild dogs are hungry
and the wild dogs howl
and the wild dogs in the mountains to the north of us
come down

standard bitter love song #7     
you smile at me in total defiance of all decency
you've got it down to a science, that innocent look
you've got it practiced real good
but i know you'd kill me if you could stand the sight of blood
if i'd been a fly on the wall a little earlier
if i'd been one of the innumerable flies in this room
if i'd been a fly on the wall a little earlier
it would've been real different around here
you try to speak but the buzzing's too loud
and it's hard to make you loud through the dense black cloud
that surrounds us both, that's just as well
you call them up, let the whole house go to hell
if i'd been one of these flies
i would've lodged myself firmly underneath your eyelid
if i'd been one of these flies a little earlier
it would've been real different around here

quetzalcoatl eats plums
i meant to leave the house this morning
and begin making my way toward where you are
i meant to leave the house this morning
i made it halfway across the front yard
but the plum tree hung heavy in my head
and the plum tree hung heavy in my heart
and the plum tree hung heavy over me
so i tore off to the phone
to call you and tell you something, but i couldn't remember what
because through the clean, clean windows
saw the plum tree's leaves, as red as fresh blood
and the plum tree hung heavy in my head
and the plum tree hung heavy in my heart
and the plum tree hung heavy over me

orange ball of love
when i catch sight of your face
and the late light falling on it
i feel scared and i scope the area out for a good place to hide
when i feel the way your fingers
wiggle in my palm
i feel warm and i feel good inside
and i know that you're wearing a wire
but as the sun becomes a blazing orange ball of fire
i lose interest in this and other such inconsequential questions
when you kick off your shoes
and i see the wet grass give way underneath your feet
and the sunset rears up once more to its burial ground
well, you look so sweet
and i know you'll be turning me in
but i also know your real name's not amy lynn
and as the orange globe rears up to swallow us, too,
i see you look at me and figure out what i know about you
well, i'm not telling
i'm not telling you anything

orange ball of hate
when i hear the screeching weather vane
in the wild wind and the pissing rain
i know that one of us, i'm not saying who,
has got rocks in her head
the rain comes through the open window
but you don't think so
i sure do love you (2x)
when i notice that the radio is broken
i see you standing there in the doorway soaking
the water drizzles off of you down to the floor
and i say that i don't want to live in new england anymore
some flower petals stick to your skin
i grab hold of your hip,  and i pull you in
when the building establishes control
when the thunder from the north begins to roll down our way
i know i've been right all along
and you start singing that stupid children's song
you think i don't know it
but i just don't feel like singing it
sure do love you
i sure do love you

bad priestess
when i see you in your new blue jeans
i know you're lying, and i know what it means
when i see you take your place among the poor
i know you're a fraud for sure
bad priestess, bad priestess
so the sunlight plays its games along your eyes
and it has the same effect on a thousand other guys
and i'd be lying if i said i didn't feel the pull, too
but the sunlight makes me strong and i know about you
bad priestess
bad priestess, on a thursday as the sun goes down
bad priestess, with a super-special eyelash trick
bad priestess, bad priestess

going to bristol
i looked you up and down
i liked everything i saw
from the fragile outline of your hips
to the trembling movements in your jaw
but when the coffee cup shattered on the kitchen floor
you said that you couldn't take it anymore
i knew you were leaving
i knew you were going to bristol
i watched you pack your bags
saw you head up to the door
but when the key broke off in the deadbolt lock
said that you couldn't take it anymore
that was the second time you said that in one day
why don't you just sit still
it's going to be okay
going to bristol (4x)

young caesar 2000
when i was twelve years old, they put me on the throne
when i was twelve years old, they made me king
from the ocean south of here to the northern hemisphere, they gave me everything 
now i'm thirteen, and no one takes me seriously
now i'm thirteen, and they're trying to take away control
i don't know how stupid you all think i am
but as sure as flowers grow along the western wall, some heads are going to roll
yeah

going to lebanon
saw your arms hanging at your side
nowhere to run to, baby, nowhere to hide
saw you moving real slow
nowhere to run to, nowhere to go
i heard the wind blow
i saw your sash come untied
blue water, white sky
up in the cedars, we were too far away
for the radio to tell us the time of day
but there was moisture in the air
i heard the city call
they can go on burning
to hell with them all
your liquid movements
the water rushing by
blue water, white sky
world's surface was as smooth as glass
and they saw the hour coming and they didn't let it pass
i heard you say my name twice through your teeth
i saw you coming down to me, i was underneath
it's been coming for some time
you close your eyes
blue water, white sky
i heard the wind blow
i saw your sash come untied
blue water, white sky

grendel's mother
the cave mouth shines
by pure force of will
i look down on the world
from the top of this lonesome hill
and you can run, and run some more
from here all the way to singapore
but i will carry you home in my teeth
in the great hall you drink red wine
you chew meat off the bone
i beat down the new path to the castle
i come naked and alone
i laid my son on the bier, i burned the wreath
fire overhead, water underneath
you can stand up or you can run
you and i both know what you've done
and i will carry you home
i will carry you home
i will carry you home in my teeth

song for tura satana (who, by the way, is an actress in russ meyers' faster pussycat, kill! kill!)
doll squad's at the drive-in
it's 1973
the fruit is full and fat this year on the orange trees
which grow in clusters
the city sixty miles away
as the sunset tries desperately to break through the gray
and the stardust came down, royal blue
as the san bernadino sky showered over you
coming home early is always a mistake
but when you see that woman on the sofa something in you breaks
you've got a celluloid tendency to flare out and blaze
and the report sounds once like a failed hymn of praise
and the stardust came down, royal blue
as the san bernadino sky showered over you

alpha in tauris
my hand brushes against the lock of hair that hangs down past your ear to your jaw (2x)
it's real neat, the moment's sweet but it's all wrong
and we're pictures of decency when we wave goodbye outside
we're pictures of decency when we wave goodbye outside
yeah, i'm the model of composure out there
but you oughta see me shaking later on
my brain gets flooded six hours later
my brain gets flooded over six hours later
rivers run with pictures of you as i stare up at the blood red moon
lying out front on the lawn, hey

going to georgia
the most remarkable thing about coming home to you is the feeling of being in motion again
it's the most extraordinary thing in the world
i have two big hands and a heart pumping blood and a 1967 colt .45 with a busted safety catch
the world shines as i cross the macon county line
going to georgia
the most remarkable thing about you standing in the doorway is that it's you
and that you're standing in the doorway
and you smile as you ease the gun from my hand and i'm frozen with joy right where i stand
the world throws its light underneath your hair
forty miles from atlanta, this is nowhere
going to georgia
the world shines as i cross the macon county line
going to georgia

quetzalcoatl is born
[woman singing]: he touched me and suddenly...
it's a cold night in sonora
and the stars are out in full force
it's a moment the world has been waiting for
when you set the world back on course
into the fire you go (2x)
it's a strange gathering around you
and the lord of the snails is born
five minutes before you take on divinity
you hear the crackling, well you hear the snapping corn
into the fire you go (4x)
